 - It is not “forgive and forget” as if nothing wrong had ever happened, but “forgive and go forward,” building on the mistakes of the past and the energy generated by reconciliation to create a new future.
 - Pain and suffering, they are a secret. Kindness and love, they are a secret. But I have learned that kindness and love can pay for pain and suffering.
 - I have always found that actively loving saves one from a morbid preoccupation with the shortcomings of society.
 - Sorrow is better than fear. Fear is a journey, a terrible journey. But, sorrow is at least an arriving.
 - What broke in a man when he could bring himself to kill another? What broke when he could bring himself to thrust down the knife into the warm flesh, to bring down the axe on the living head, to cleave down between the seeing eyes, to shoot the gun that would drive death into the beating heart?
 - All roads lead to Johannesburg.
 - I am a weak and sinful man, but God put His hands on me, that is all.
 - When a deep injury is done us, we never recover until we forgive.
 - There is a lovely road that runs from Ixopo into the hills. These hills are grass-covered and rolling, and they are lovely beyond any singing of it...
 - In the deserted harbour there is yet water that laps against the quays. In the dark and silent forest, there is a leaf that falls. Behind the polished panelling the white ant eats away the wood. Nothing is ever quiet, except for fools.
 - Life has not taught me to expect nothing, but she has taught me not to expect success to be the inevitable result of my endeavors. She taught me to seek sustenance from the endeavor itself, but to leave the result to God.
 - The tragedy is not that things are broken. The tragedy is that things are not mended again.
 - I have one great fear in my heart, that one day when they are turned to loving, they will find that we are turned to hating.
 - There is only one thing that has power completely, and that is love.
 - For it is the dawn that has come, as it has come for a thousand centuries, never failing.
 - Happy the eyes that can close.
 - But when the dawn will come, of our emancipation, from the fear of bondage and the bondage of fear, why, that is a secret.
 - To give up the task of reforming society is to give up one’s responsibility as a free man.
 - The truth is, our civilization is not Christian; it is a tragic compound of great ideal and fearful practice, of loving charity and fearful clutching of possessions.
 - One thing is about to be finished, but here is something that is only begun. And while I live it will continue.
 - But perhaps when you were too obedient, and did not do openly what others did, and were quiet in church and hard-working at school, then some unknown rebellion brewed in you, doing harm to you, though how I do not understand.
 - Nothing is ever quiet, except for fools.
 - Let me not be afraid to defend the weak because of the anger of the strong, nor afraid to defend the poor because of the anger of the rich.
 - And were your back as broad as heaven, and your purse full of gold, and did your compassion reach from here to hell itself, there is nothing you can do.
 - I have never thought that a Christian would be free of suffering, umfundisi. For our Lord suffered. And I come to believe that he suffered, not to save us from suffering, but to teach us how to bear suffering. For he knew that there is no life without suffering.
 - For who can stop the heart from breaking?
 - I envision someday a great, peaceful South Africa in which the world will take pride, a nation in which each of many different groups will be making its own creative contribution.
 - It is not permissible for us to go on destroying the family life when we know that we are destroying it.
 - There is a lovely road that runs from Ixopo into the hills...
 - Something deep is touched here, something that is good and deep.
 - When men are ruled by fear, they strive to prevent the very changes that will abate it.
 - The Judge does not make the law. It is people that make the law. Therefore if a law is unjust, and if the Judge judges according to the law, that is justice, even if it is not just.
 - We do not work for men. We work for the land and the people. We do not even work for money.
 - But the one thing that has power completely is love, because when a man loves, he seeks no power, and therefore he has power.
 - The only way in which one can make endurable man’s inhumanity to man, and man’s destruction of his own environment, is to exemplify in your own lives man’s humanity to man and man’s reverence for the place in which he lives.
 - St. Francis of Assisi taught me that there is a wound in the Creation and that the greatest use we could make of our lives was to ask to be made a healer of it.
 - One day in Johannesburg, and already the tribe was being rebuilt, the house and soul being restored.
 - It is my belief that the only power which can resist the power of fear is the power of love.
 - The Afrikaner has nowhere to go, and thats why he would rather destroy himself than capitulate.
 - It was not his habit to dwell on what could have been, but what could never be.
 - It is not permissible to add to one’s possesions if these things can only be done at the cost of other men. Such development has only one true name, and that is exploitation.
 - Although nothing has come yet, something is here already.
 - There are voices crying what must be done, a hundred, a thousand voices. But what do they help if one seeks for counsel, for one cries this, and one cries that, and another cries something that is neither this nor that.
 - For fear will rob him of all if he gives too much.
 - The ground is holy, being even as it came from the Creator. Keep it, guard it, care for it, for it keeps men, guards men, cares for men. Destroy it and man is destroyed.
 - Now God be thanked that the name of a hill is such music, that the name of a river can heal.
 - Ask yourself not if this or that is expedient, but if it is right.
 - Forgive us all, for we all have trespasses.
 - But to punish and not to restore, that is the greatest of all offences.
 - If you wrote a novel in South Africa which didn’t concern the central issues, it wouldn’t be worth publishing.
 - What broke in a man when he could bring himself to kill another?

51 quotes