 - Life: a constellation of vital phenomena – organization, irritability, movement, growth, reproduction, adaptation.
 - Inside us there is a word we cannot pronounce, and that is who we are.
 - How often is immense sadness mistaken for courage?
 - We all know to feel sympathy for those who’ve suffered from drug addiction, child abuse, and terminal illness, so the set up elicits an emotional response that the story itself very well may not earn. Energy generated by the fiction itself is likely to produce more light.
 - You are mine. I recognize you. We twist our souls around each other’s miseries. It is that which makes us family.
 - Happiness came in moments of unpredictable loveliness.
 - It’s stupid. There are maps to show you how to get to the place where you want to be but no maps that show you how to get to the time when you want to be.
 - For their entire lives, even before they met you, your mother and father held their love for you inside their hearts like an acorn holds an oak tree.
 - Perhaps our deepest love is already inscribed within us, so its object doesn’t create a new word but instead allows us to read the one written.
 - Nothing, she now knew, could be defined in exclusion, and every bug, pencil, and grass blade was a dictionary in itself, requiring the definitions of all things to fulfill its own.
 - There is something miraculous in the way the years wash away your evidence, first you, then your friends and family, then the descendants who remember your face, until you aren’t even a memory, you’re only carbon, no greater than your atoms, and time will divide them as well.
 - War is unnatural, it causes people to act unnaturally.
 - There was a time when she had indulged in the hypothetical for hours a day, plotting the map that had led her here. But no life is a line, and hers was an uneven orbit around a dark star, a moth circling a dead bulb, searching for the light it once held.
 - We wear clothes, and speak, and create civilizations, and believe we are more than wolves. But inside us there is a word we cannot pronounce and that is who we are.
 - She wanted to hold foreign syllables like mints on her tongue until they dissolved into fluency.
 - She wouldn’t climb out of the bed for her sister, but she had climbed into a crater. She wouldn’t cross a room, but she had crossed a continent.
 - Invader and invaded held on to their fistfuls of earth, but in the end, the earth outlived the hands that held it.
 - We tend to associate humor with lightheartedness, but really, it’s a rhetorical mode than can be applied to any subject. It was through researching Chechnya that I came to understand this.
 - Her father was the face of her morning and night, he was everything, so saturating Havaa’s world that she could no more describe him than she could the air.
 - In my own work, humor is necessary, for the reasons stated above, but also because forbidding your characters silliness, absurdity, irony, and vulgarity forbids them aspects of the human experience every bit as universal as sorrow.
 - My work often begins as little internal dares, wondering if I can pull something off. So I spent a few years drawing these stories together, trying to build a Pangea of what began as separate continents.
 - But there had to be a quota. An upper limit to the number of miracles one is privileged to in a lifetime. How many times can a beloved reappear?
 - Sleep just a while longer, that’s it, where else can you go where you neither suffer nor cause suffering.
 - Work isn’t meaningful just because you spend your life doing it.
 - She was fluent in four languages and yet her fists against the rusted hood were the fullest articulation of her defeat.
 - Anytime I can get either of them really laughing, I immediately pull out a pad of paper write the joke down, regardless of where we are or what we’re doing. I must be absolutely insufferable.
 - Entire years had passed when he was rich enough in time to disregard the loose change of a minute, but now he obsessed over each one, this minute, the next minute, the one following, all of which were different terms for the same illusion.

27 quotes