 - Laugh and the world laughs with you, snore and you sleep alone.
 - Translation is not a matter of words only: it is a matter of making intelligible a whole culture.
 - If he can only perform good or only perform evil, then he is a clockwork orange – meaning that he has the appearance of an organism lovely with colour and juice but is in fact only a clockwork toy to be wound up by God or the Devil.
 - We can destroy what we have written, but we cannot unwrite it.
 - Life is, of course, terrible.
 - Well, well, well, well. If it isn’t fat, stinking billygoat Billy-Boy in poison. How art thou, thy globby bottle of cheap, stinking chip-oil? Come and get one in the yarbles, if you have any yarbles, you eunuch jelly thou.
 - But what I do I do because I like to do.
 - I viddied that thinking is for the gloopy ones and that the oomny ones use like inspiration and what Bog sends. For now it was lovely music that came to my aid.
 - It is as inhuman to be totally good as it is to be totally evil.
 - We all need money, but there are degrees of desperation.
 - I didn’t think; I experimented.
 - Sanity is a handicap and liability if you’re living in a mad world.
 - Violence among young people is an aspect of their desire to create. They don’t know how to use their energy creatively so they do the opposite and destroy.
 - It’s always good to remember where you come from and celebrate it. To remember where you come from is part of where you’re going.
 - To be left alone is the most precious thing one can ask of the modern world.
 - It’s funny how the colors of the real world only seem really real when you watch them on a screen.
 - The important thing is moral choice. Evil has to exist along with good, in order that moral choice may operate. Life is sustained by the grinding opposition of moral entities.
 - I chart a little first-list of names, rough synopsis of chapters, and so on. But one daren’t overplan; so many things are generated by the sheer act of writing.
 - Does God want goodness or the choice of goodness? Is a man who chooses to be bad perhaps in some way better than a man who has the good imposed upon him?
 - It had been a wonderful evening and what I needed now, to give it the perfect ending, was a little of the Ludwig Van.
 - Is it better for a man to have chosen evil than to have good imposed upon him?
 - I was cured all right.
 - A word in a dictionary is very much like a car in a mammoth motor show – full of potential but temporarily inactive.
 - There is, in fact, not much point in writing a novel unless you can show the possibility of moral transformation, or an increase in wisdom, operating in your chief character or characters.
 - Women thrive on novelty and are easy meat for the commerce of fashion. Men prefer old pipes and torn jackets.
 - Any book has behind it all the other books that have been written.
 - Americans will listen, but they do not care to read. War and Peace must wait for the leisure of retirement, which never really comes: meanwhile it helps to furnish the living room.
 - Life is sustained by the grinding opposition of moral entities.
 - All human life is here, but the Holy Ghost seems to be somewhere else.
 - For no man is damned precisely because God hath not chosen him, because he is not elected, but because he is a sinner, and doth wilfully refuse the means of grace offered.
 - Colonialism. The enforced spread of the rule of reason. But who is going to spread it among the colonizers?
 - Eat this sweetish segment or spit it out. You are free.
 - Rome’s just a city like anywhere else. A vastly overrated city, I’d say. It trades on belief just as Stratford trades on Shakespeare.
 - A Haydn symphony had a meaning for the social group that listened to it. A Mahler symphony had a meaning for the man who composed it. Here is the difference between the classical and romantic attitudes to art.
 - Art is rare and sacred and hard work, and there ought to be a wall of fire around it.
 - Senseless violence is a prerogative of youth, which has much energy but little talent for the constructive.
 - Civilised my syphilised yarbles.
 - Then, brothers, it came. Oh, bliss, bliss and heaven. I lay all nagoy to the ceiling, my gulliver on my rookers on the pillow, glazzies closed, rot open in bliss, slooshying the sluice of lovely sounds. Oh, it was gorgeousness and gorgeosity made flesh.
 - As we are all solipsists, and all die, the world dies with us. Only very minor literature aims at apocalypse.
 - It was like a bird of rarest-spun heaven metal or like silvery wine flowing in a spaceship, gravity all nonsense now.
 - Each man kills the thing he loves.
 - How wicked, my brothers, innocent milk must always seem to me now.
 - Blockbusting fiction is bought as furniture. Unread, it maintains its value. Read, it looks like money wasted. Cunningly, Americans know that books contain a person, and they want the person, not the book.
 - Literature is all, or mostly, about sex.
 - This must be a real horrorshow film if you’re so keen on my viddying it.
 - I was always on my oddy knocky.
 - I have heard earnest American sociologists say that American children have a right to the divorce experience as an enriching element of an advanced civilisation.
 - I mean, there’s little enough in this life, really, and you only find it worth living for the odd moments, and if you think you’re going to have those odd moments again, then it makes life wonderful and have a meaning.
 - There was me, that is Alex, and my three droogs, that is Pete, Georgie and Dim, Dim being really dim, and we sat in the Korova Milkbar making up our rassoodocks what to do with the evening.
 - He said it was artificial respiration but now I find I’m to have his child.
 - Delimitation is always difficult. The world is one, life is one. The sweetest and most heavenly of activities partake in some measure of violence – the act of love, for instance; music, for instance.
 - When the State withers, humanity flowers.
 - And I sort of frowned about that, thinking. ‘You felt ill this afternoon,’ he said, ’because you’re getting better. When we’re healthy we respond to the presence of the hateful with fear and nausea. You’re becoming healthy, that’s all.
 - The 21st chapter gives the novel the quality of genuine fiction, an art founded on the principle that human beings change. – – “A Clockwork Orange Resucked” intro to first full American version 1986.
 - Bath twice a day to be really clean, once a day to be passably clean, once a week to avoid being a public menace.
 - The possession of a book becomes a substitute for reading it.
 - Language exists less to record the actual than to liberate the imagination.
 - In two thousand years all our generals and politicians may be forgotten, but Einstein and Madame Curie and Bernard Shaw and Stravinsky will keep the memory of our age alive.
 - Keep away from physicians. It is all probing and guessing and pretending with them. They leave it to Nature to cure in her own time, but they take the credit. As well as very fat fees.
 - Hitler was a teetotalitarian.
 - But, brothers, this biting of their toe-nails over what is the CAUSE of badness is what turns me into a fine laughing malchick. They don’t go into what is the cause of GOODNESS, so why of the other shop?
 - Evil has to exist along with good, in order that moral choice may operate.
 - If you believe in an unseen Christ, you will believe in the unseen Christlike potential of others.
 - I think art is sublimated libido. You can’t be a eunuch priest, and you can’t be a eunuch artist.
 - The downtrodden are the great creators of slang.
 - The ideal reader of my novels is a lapsed Catholic and failed musician, short-sighted, colour-blind, auditorily biased, who has read the books that I have read.
 - The next morning I woke up at oh eight oh oh hours, my brothers, and as I still felt shagged and fagged and fashed and bashed and my glazzies were stuck together real horrorshow with sleepglue, I thought I would not go to school.
 - The not-self cannot have the bad, meaning they of the government and the judges and the schools cannot allow the bad because they cannot allow the self.
 - As a chamber hung round about with looking-glasses represents the face upon every turn, thus all the world doth the mercy and the bounty of God; though that be visible, yet it discovers an invisible God and his invisible properties.
 - Alex like groweth up, Oh Yes.
 - Life’s only choosing when to die. Life’s a big postponement because the choice is so difficult. It’s a tremendous relief not to have to choose.
 - And to all others in this story profound shooms of lip music brrrrrr. And they can kiss my sharries.
 - Writers are rarely their own best critics, nor are critics.
 - Blessed tree and blessed birds, that were to be neither saved nor damned.
 - You have no idea how pleasant it is not to have any future. It’s like having a totally efficient contraceptive.
 - Death comes along like a gas bill one can’t pay.
 - Elgar is not manic enough to be Russian, not witty or pointilliste enough to be French, not harmonically simple enough to be Italian and not stodgy enough to be German. We arrive at his Englishry by pure elimination.
 - I start at the beginning, go on to the end, then stop.
 - Beckett does not believe in God, though he seems to imply that God has committed an unforgivable sin by not existing.
 - Fumbling for a word is everybody’s birthright.
 - There is a satisfactory boniness about grammar which the flesh of sheer vocabulary requires before it can become a vertebrate and walk the earth.
 - Every dogma has its day.
 - Oh, it was gorgeosity and yumyumyum. When it came to the Scherzo I could viddy myself very clear running and running on like the very light and mysterious nogas, carving the whole litso of the creeching world with my cut-throat britva.
 - Without class differences, England would cease to be the living theatre it is.
 - Every grain of experience is food for the greedy growing soul of the artist.
 - All novels are experimental.
 - You don’t say, ‘I’ve done it!’ You come, with a kind of horrible desperation, to realize that this will do.
 - I was very lighthearted. This often the way when the abandonment of personal responsibility is enforced: neither wronged innocence or just guilt can seriously impair the sensation of freedom one has.
 - I’ve always felt that English women had to be approached in a sisterly manner, rather than an erotic manner.
 - Immortality makes sense only when the individual soul can be thought of as merging into a great collective mush of sainthood. If we take anything with us into the next world, it is not what survives in the memories of our relicts.
 - I don’t write out of fear. I write out of a strong urge to meet death on its own eternal terms, because the fact is that if you write as little as a page of prose-even bad prose-that is eternal.
 - The practice of fiction can be dangerous: it puts ideas into the head of the world.
 - Literature ceases to be literature when it commits itself to moral uplift; it becomes moral philosophy or some such dull thing.
 - The writer’s life seethes within but not without.
 - The state is never so efficient as when it wants money.
 - The essence of pop stardom is immaturity – a wretched little pseudo-musical gift, a development of the capacity to shock, a short-lived notoriety, extreme depression, a yielding to the suicidal impulse.
 - The trouble began with Forster. After him it was considered ungentlemanly to write more than five or six novels.
 - Put it off for a bit. All life is putting off. Well, not entirely.
 - A work of fiction should be, for its author, a journey into the unknown, and the prose should convey the difficulties of the journey.
 - The adult relation to books is one of absorbing rather than being absorbed.
 - Welly, welly, welly, welly, welly, welly, well. To what do I owe the extreme pleasure of this surprising visit?
 - What’s it going to be then, eh?
 - Suddenly, I viddied what I had to do, and what I had wanted to do, and that was to do myself in; to snuff it, to blast off for ever out of this wicked, cruel world. One moment of pain perhaps and, then, sleep forever, and ever and ever.
 - As we grow older, the memories of early life brighten, those of maturity and senescence grow dim and confused.
 - I conclude that there is as much sense in nonsense as there is nonsense in sense.
 - Life is a wretched gray Saturday, but it has to be lived through.
 - Ignorance and poverty are the best condiments for the great feast of the world, but the inexperienced and poor are never invited to it.
 - The purpose of education is to fit us for life in a civilised community, and it seems to follow from the subjects we study that the two most important things in civilised life are Art and Science.
 - All art preserves mysteries which aesthetic philosophers tackle in vain.
 - The unconscious mind has a habit of asserting itself in the afternoon.
 - I see what is right and approve, but I do what is wrong.
 - The aura of the theocratic death penalty for adultery still clings to America, even outside New England, and multiple divorce, which looks to the European like serial polygamy, is the moral solution to the problem of the itch.
 - Only in England is the perversion of language regarded as a victory for democracy.
 - Books in a large university library system: 2,000,000. Books in an average large city library: 10,000. Average number of books in a chain bookstore: 30,000. Books in an average neighborhood branch library: 20,000.
 - A character, to be acceptable as more than a chess piece, has to be ignorant of the future, unsure about the past, and not at all sure of what he’s supposed to be doing.
 - If you expect the worst from a person you can never be disappointed.
 - For the serious artist does not satisfy needs.
 - When a man cannot chose, he ceases to be a man.
 - I wrote much because I was paid little. I had no great desire to leave a literary name behind me.
 - Great Music, it said, and Great Poetry would like quieten Modern Youth down and make Modern Youth more Civilized. Civilized my syphilised yarbles.
 - What critics often ask for is the impossible, though this may be a salutary means of extending the borders of art.
 - We only need to wear shoes because the British built roads which hurt our feet.
 - With both agents and publishers hungry for bestsellers, literature will have to end up as a cottage industry.
 - To devastate is easier and more spectacular than to create.

124 quotes