 - The Country Music Awards were held Wednesday night at Universal City. The best country songs are always about drinking and guns and love gone wrong. Next year they’re giving Robert Blake the Lifetime Achievement Award.
 - Barclays Bank in England purchased bankrupt Lehman Brothers Tuesday along with its Manhattan tower, saving nine thousand jobs. It’s humiliating. The United States of America is 232 years old and we’re having to go to mom for money.
 - Hillary Clinton began a New York thank-you tour Friday by calling for the abolition of the Electoral College. No wonder Arkansas never liked her. She hasn’t been in office three days and already she’s an abolitionist.
 - It’s a new era at Disney. From now on, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs will be known as Person of No Color and the Seven Vertically Challenged Individuals.
 - Anne Marie Smith flew to Washington to tell prosecutors about Gary Condit’s attempt to get her to deny their affair. It looks bad. If it’s found he lied about the intern and the mistresses, he could get 4-8 years in the White House.
 - He called for military supremacy, no welfare and cultural rebirth. It was a nice speech, but it sounded a lot better in its original German.
 - Chinese president Jiang Zemin met with former Bill Clinton in Hong Kong Wednesday. What a contrast. One is a ruthless communist who gains popularity by damaging the United States, while the other guy runs China.
 - Pakistan’s ruler Pervez Musharraf predicted the Taliban will fall for hiding Osama bin Laden. Ex-king Zahir Shah is standing by to replace Mullah Mohammed Omar. And the most ominous sign of all, President Bush has learned all their names.
 - FBI laboratory scientists said Sunday they have determined that the anthrax mailed to Senate offices last fall was fresh. They say it’s only two years old. If the stuff is two years old and it’s still fresh, it’s not anthrax, it’s Velveeta.
 - The surest way to wake up and smell the roses every day is to go to sleep face down in the flower bed.
 - President Obama hosted a state dinner for British Prime Minister David Cameron. The president and the British are getting along a lot better lately. They love to compare notes on ways the Tea Party’s always trying to overthrow their rule in America.
 - The most identifiable trait of Anglo-Saxons is that we always mistake a short memory for a clear conscience.
 - The Concord Coalition in Virginia complained about pork projects and wasteful spending in the federal budget. Consider the Senate chaplain’s salary. As occupations go, only mind readers in Los Angeles have fewer things to do all day.
 - Ohio went on alert Tuesday when a train with hazardous chemicals ran wild through the state. A brave engineer leaped aboard and brought the runaway train under control. Sounds like we’ve found our next FBI Director.
 - Michael Moore announced that his next documentary film will attack the health care industry in America. He’s not out to get the pharmaceutical companies. He’s just looking for something to relieve the redness in the center of the country.
 - There’s no shortage of attention junkies with large breasts in Hollywood but only Michael Moore’s are real.
 - No wonder we keep testing positive in their bicycle races. Everyone looks like they’re full of testosterone when they’re surrounded by Frenchmen.
 - The Pentagon tested an anti-missile system in New Mexico Wednesday. The test was an incomplete success. While the interceptor was shooting down the incoming missile, three thousand illegal aliens walked right across the border under its nose.
 - Hillary Clinton ripped FBI Director Louis Freeh on Wednesday. She said she can’t understand how FBI documents could vanish and then mysteriously reappear. She has to say that or she’d be thrown out of the Magician’s Society.
 - Jenna Bush was cited for underage drinking in Austin Friday. Her dad warned her that too much partying at school could cost her a good career. At $400,000, he’s making the lowest salary of any of his Yale classmates.
 - Wimbledon attracted Bill Clinton to the gallery at Centre Court Tuesday at the All England Club. NBC cameras showed his head turning back and forth with each volley. Even at a tennis match, it looks like he’s denying everything.
 - Bill Clinton blasted anti-immigration supporters at the National Council of La Raza convention in Los Angeles Saturday. Thousands of Hispanics poured into Los Angeles for the convention. The hot weather in the desert kept the numbers down.
 - President Obama shopped at a book store to help support Small Business Saturday. He bought fifteen books. His tax policies and his health care law have been so brutal on small businesses the only way they can survive is if he shops there personally.
 - Conoco will build a $75 million plant to see if a process to convert natural gas to liquid fuel is profitable. It has to be. In California, gasoline is so expensive that people are trying to run their cars on cocaine.
 - President Bush paid homage Wednesday to World War II veterans of Normandy at the D-Day Memorial. Later that night, his twin daughters paid a special tribute to World War II veterans of the Pacific. They each downed two kamikazes.
 - Walter Mondale once said God has no place in American politics and it turned out that God felt the same way about Walter Mondale.
 - Hillary Clinton flew with President Bush to New York City on Tuesday. She was amazed at the changes aboard Air Force One. For eight years she believed that flight attendants couldn’t wear clothes because it made the plane too heavy.
 - New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani fired his wife, Donna Hanover, as official hostess of the mayor’s mansion last weekend. He’s got his own idea of what a hostess should be. He wants a little cupcake.
 - Senate Democrats vowed Sunday to kill President Bush’s energy plan. They think this is their ticket back to the White House in 2004. All they have to do now is figure out a way to get cars to run on beautiful pictures of Alaska.
 - Secret Service agents detained an Iowa man with a gun who happened to be walking in a Des Moines park where President Bush was jogging. Were they out of their minds? White guys with guns put Bush in the White House.
 - They’ve taken their own precautions against Al Qaeda. To prepare for an attack, each Frenchman is urged to keep duct tape, a white flag, and a three-day supply of mistresses in the house.
 - Bill and Hillary will spend Easter with her brothers Hugh and Tony and Roger Clinton. They have a family ritual at all holiday dinners. After they sit down, they hold hands, close their eyes, and get their stories straight.
 - President Obama hosted lawmakers Thursday saying he wanted bipartisan input on health care reform. Nobody’s mind was changed. At the summit’s end he threatened to go with the nuclear option, showing he’s tougher on Republicans than he is on Iran.
 - President Obama compared himself to Gandhi and Nelson Mandela in the struggle to bring about change. The comparison is flawed. They spent years in jail before taking political power, while politicians from Chicago do it the other way around.
 - Virginia Governor Jim Gilmore rescinded the state’s European Heritage Month proclamation for fear it would sound racist. It’s too bad. Thus ends a month of celebrating the 400-year progression of our nation’s British culture from wood to steel to graphite shafts.
 - The White House announced on Monday the Prime Minister of Australia will visit President Bush in September. We have a lot in common. Australia started out as a prison colony, while the United States has evolved into one.
 - The Columbus Day Parade was held Monday in New York. Columbus was the world’s first Democrat. He left not knowing where he was going, arrived not knowing where he was, went home not knowing where he had been, and he did it all on government money.
 - Fox News reported Thursday that Bill Clinton can’t get into any of New York’s better golf and country clubs. Not one member has been willing to sponsor him. So it’s official, he really is America’s first black president.
 - Hillary showed off a new set of White House china at the mansion’s 200th birthday dinner Thursday. She said she helped design it. It’s thanks to her that all the White House china looks like it’s been glued back together.
 - If it turns out that Barry Bonds used steroids to bulk up and add muscle mass, he could get four to eight years as governor of California.
 - President Clinton broke ground Saturday for the World War II memorial in Washington. He’ll never have the military’s full respect. However, after surviving ten female accusers, he’s been made an honorary member of the Tailhook Association.
 - Former South Africa President Nelson Mandela announced Tuesday he will begin writing his autobiography. He spent 25 years in prison before being elected to public office. In America, we do it the other way around.
 - Jesse Ventura took American politics and raised it to the level of professional wrestling.
 - President Obama met with ten House Democrats opposed to the health care bill. He did all he could to get their votes. He promised to campaign for them in their districts and when that didn’t work, he threatened to campaign for them in their districts.
 - Hillary Clinton will travel to Vietnam with the president this Friday. It’s a fact that at the height of the war in 1971, she tried to enlist in the Marines, but they turned her down. Apparently we weren’t that mad at the Viet Cong.

45 quotes