 - Worry is a misuse of your imagination.
 - I am a freelancer. My services are available to anyone at any time.
 - No human ever became interesting by not failing. The more you fail and recover and improve, the better you are as a person. Ever meet someone who’s always had everything work out for them with zero struggle? They usually have the depth of a puddle. Or they don’t exist.
 - We’re not in an information age anymore. We’re in the information management age.
 - Sober strip clubs are horrible. When you are sober you see the matrix code behind a strip club. You’re paying girls to pretend to like you until you run out of money so they can walk away.
 - When I was in school, if you wanted a computer, you had to build one. But today, computers are everywhere. We’re all obsessed with technology and having the latest gadgets. Nerd culture is ubiquitous.
 - There are certain parts of a classic nerd’s brain that can destroy that person – obsessing about things to the detriment of everything else in your life. But those are the same tools that you can use to turn everything around.
 - Long ago you may have given up control of your brain and set it on autopilot either because it just felt like too much work. And it is work! But for me, this work was well worth it for the prospect of not waking up sad every day.
 - Playing Xbox for 23 hours straight is cool and all, but I’m going to teach you how to spend time on things in your life that will get you the following two things: paid and laid.
 - Stand-up isn’t something I just sit down and start writing – it’s ideas you come up with in the shower, while you’re driving, waiting in line.
 - No matter what tricks you use or what decisions you make, go easy on yourself as someone who’s on a never-ending quest for improvement.
 - The ‘Hipster Nerds’ like stuff because they hate it. It’s like they ironically like it.
 - Stand up straight. If you stand up straight, you will instantly feel better about yourself, and you will project a better image to the world, one that says you don’t feel like you have to be hunched over and closed off.
 - We are in niche consumption mode, but ‘niche’ doesn’t mean ‘small’ anymore. Niche can mean focused, and particularly with the Web, which is a global audience you can have something niche and still get 10 to 15 million views.
 - The thing about hipsters is that they take very seriously trying to make themselves look like they don’t take themselves seriously.
 - When you don’t take an aggressive role in shaping your thoughts, feelings, and perceptions, you become a helpless passenger floating through the universe like a ghost ship, merely reacting to wherever it takes you.
 - A big company is like trying to steer a luxury liner.
 - Humans cannot produce viable offspring with our closest animal cousin: the chimpanzee. We cannot impregnate a chimp. So you know what that means? No condoms.
 - When I was younger, my parents used to say, “Trust us on this. We have more experience than you.” And I was like, “Shut up, you don’t know anything!” But I was an idiot. They did know more stuff because they’d experienced more things.
 - If you’re able to build from your falls you’ll be unstoppable and damn near fearless. You see, every time you fall down and get back up, you add another piece of body armor to yourself. You learn what not to do, how to do better, and how to create comfort through practice.
 - I made a lot of changes in my life between my twenties and thirties, and it all sort of revolves around how I think people with nerdier brains tend to problem-solve and approach things differently then “norms.”
 - Growing up in the 70s and 80s, it took effort to be a nerd. You had to seek out the nerd stuff.
 - Like lycanthropy, the nerd gene can skip a generation. My maternal grandfather was a technophile.
 - You walk into a strip club with a wad of cash; they all flock around you. Strippers are just pigeons with tits. They go where the bread is.
 - There’s a lot of money being generated by nerds right now. Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, the list goes on and on. Nerds make more money than our government. And with money comes power.
 - What’s more unnerving than magnetism, ghosts, and unpurified water? Gadgetmongers who purport to protect us from metaphysical monsters that go bump in the New Age night.
 - Some people learn comedy, and some people just are comedy.
 - I think for a lot of people, bowling is sort of a joke. But I love it, and it means a lot to me, so any chance to help promote it or celebrate it or not make the hackiest jokes – ‘Bowlers are like plumbers and they wear the craziest shirts!’ – I’m way into.
 - I feel like being nerd is not about the superficial quality; it’s about how nerds approach life. It’s much more emotional and mental than it is you’re some fat guy living in your mom’s basement, which I think is just a hacky stereotype.
 - Jokes that make me laugh out loud when I write them almost always bomb. I have no idea why.
 - I played tournament chess from fifth grade up into high school.
 - If you can build your career around your passions, then you’re winning in life; that’s one of the best things you can ask for.
 - The nerds provide the toys that distract the morons. So the nerds are sort of the new drug-dealers. We’re the drug dealers of the 21st century because we provide all the brain candy for the mouth-breathers, for lack of a better word.
 - Comedy has sort of been my life-long obsession. I literally obsessed over comedy. I really didn’t play sports – for me it was just comedy, computers and chess club; those were my big things.
 - Rats are just Ziploc bags full of disease.
 - There’s no ironic appreciation of things we love, even of things that are in fact ridiculous, which a hipster might take and own and show the world the humor in it.
 - I love the South. Although I grew up primarily in Memphis, my family moved around a ton when I was a kid. I guess I never stayed in one place long enough to pick up the accent, but I definitely identify as a Southerner.
 - I almost think of nerd brains as rattlesnake venom; like, you can milk it. You can milk the pulpy venom out of the nerd brain and use it for good if you want to.
 - I’ve gone from being bullied by jocks as a kid to being bullied by nerds as an adult.
 - My father was one of the greatest professional bowlers of all time. Seriously. Billy Hardwick: PBA Hall of Fame, Player of the Year in ’63 and ’69, and the first winner of the triple crown of bowling, among other things.
 - I don’t know if I’m a Twitter addict. That seems kind of harsh. I would say it’s more that I’m seriously involved. That it’s a long-term relationship – like a girlfriend, which my actual girlfriend loves to hear.
 - I like listening to people talk about things that they love. They get to express things they don’t normally get to express.
 - The podcast movement was really a creative survival mechanism for standup comics.
 - Comic-Con is nerd Christmas. People go wanting to have fun.
 - It changed my whole outlook. I lost a decade to self-pity, and the next thing I knew I was turning 40.
 - Our mandate at Nerdist is that we only get involved with nice people around things that we love. We have the luxury of being in the demographic that we’re programming for.
 - Steal moments of happiness if you have to, and then collect them until they are the dominant images in your psyche.
 - I had a personal blog, but why does anyone care that I went shopping for hats?
 - Comment threads are the new therapy for people. They just go and post the worst things they can think of because they feel bad, and then other people start attacking them, and then they attack back.
 - Twitter is basically text messaging. Twitter is a guy you can always elbow in the side and say, “Hey, look, a guy in a clown suit just threw up!” And I don’t have 400-800 words to say about that, I just wanted to say that one thing.
 - If you’re going into stand-up, you’re hyper-analyzing the world and asking as many questions about a thing as you possibly can so you can figure out the ultimate nature of that thing.
 - The worst day ever was when I found out my grandfather was going to die.
 - For me personally, I have a fear of, ‘If I stop, I’m going to die.’ If I stop doing the things that are enriching to me or creatively exciting to me or if I stop creating, then I feel stagnant. If something isn’t growing, it’s dying.
 - If I wasn’t acting or doing stand-up, I would be in animation. Or if I had the discipline I might studies physics.
 - Nerdists, unlike nerds, tend to be creators as much as consumers. They’re creative consumers.
 - I do podcasts for the same reasons I do stand-up comedy. I love it, and I don’t care if anybody else gets it.
 - I do seem like the kind of guy who’d be obsessive about Rubik’s Cubes.
 - While the liberal media elite depict the bowler as a chubby guy with a comb-over and polyester pants, the reality is that bowling is one of the most tech-heavy sports today. Robotic pinsetters and computerized scoring were just the beginning.
 - Being constructively critical is good, as long as your purpose is to improve your methods for future endeavors. Lying in bed and replaying failures and telling yourself you’re stupid is a tremendous disservice to your efforts and what you can offer the world.
 - Every year on my birthday, I start a new playlist titled after my current age so I can keep track of my favorite songs of the year as a sort of musical diary because I am a teenage girl.
 - I’m just gonna do a podcast because it’s mine, I can control it, I have complete responsibility over it, and no one can touch it.
 - I think some of what makes it a good podcast is that it’s organic. It doesn’t feel forced. If we can say anything about ours, it’s that we’re not faking it at all. We’re genuinely interested in the people that we’re talking to.
 - My best friend, Wil Wheaton, identifies himself as a geek.
 - I spent a lot of time bowling as a kid, mostly because I grew up in bowling alleys. They were kind of my playgrounds.
 - Any time you’re lucky enough to get on a show people watch, it’s a good thing.
 - When you first start working, you take whatever job is offered, because you have to build your resume. But you don’t think about what you’re building.
 - Every time I finish a record, it’s sort of feels like, “I can’t believe that I’m hanging out and having a conversation, and people are gonna listen to this.” It’s an odd thing, but it’s really cool.
 - Stand-up for me is usually a weekend thing. I go out of town and just do it.
 - Both my parents recognized early on that I wanted to do something in comedy, and they were really supportive. They’re the ones who bought me Steve Martin records and let me watch R-rated comedies long before they probably should have.
 - My mom is a big sports fans. Basketball, football, baseball, whatever. She calls into sports radio shows and gets into shouting matches, that’s how intense she is about it.
 - Even before I had an assistant, my calendar was color-coded and I had all these different e-mail rules for how to prioritize e-mails, so I made it a point years ago to figure all that stuff out because my life was a mess.
 - I dated around some, but I’ve always been a serial monogamist. I don’t know how people date around a lot, and not want to stab themselves in the face with a sharp object.
 - Be offended by everything or be offended by nothing.
 - With stand-up, there’s a little bit of an exaggerated reality because things have to be manipulated to create comedy, to create jokes.
 - Fleetwood Mac is just one of my all-time favorite bands.
 - I think people have this stereotypical idea in their head of what a nerd is. People have said to me before, “You’re not a nerd!” because I think they think of the classic Revenge Of The Nerds archetype.
 - I probably get one or two days off every five or six weeks.
 - I’m not fun to bowl with. I take it way too seriously. I have high expectations for myself.
 - I’ve been out of work so many times in my life that relying too much on just one job is terrifying.
 - I hate to say it, but because of humanity’s capitalistic nature, money is important.
 - If you do a joke that’s really old, then what happens is people on Reddit and Twitter just go, ‘Real original, you’re just doing old jokes!’ But bands do it all the time.
 - I categorize nerds as creative-obsessive. A lot of nerds are creative people who obsess almost unnaturally over the minutiae of things.
 - Any nerd who grew up around the time that I did, BBC programming was a treasure chest for us.
 - Real philosophy is like trying to read an alarm system installation manual in Korean.
 - We didn’t understand irony yet in the ’80s; we just kind of existed at face value, so there was no nerd cool yet because the digital revolution was still in its infancy.
 - When comedians get successful, the fans that they have aren’t the fans they would hang out with. I don’t have that problem.
 - I think when I look out and I see there’s so much negativity in the world and a lot of people are unhappy and a lot people are anxious, it just feels like that’s one view of the world. But you don’t have to always focus on that view of the world.
 - Twitter is really a hyper-distilled version of how the internet should work – short bursts of relatively useful information.
 - When you hang around a lot of comedians long enough, you realize there’s a certain gene, in every comedian. It’s why we get hyper-analytical about things.
 - You can’t throw money at the Internet to make it work – it really is all about the quality of the content.
 - I think the mistake a lot of people make with new media is they just focus on one thing. But any one thing – just doing podcasts or just having a website or just doing television – isn’t enough anymore.
 - You don’t need 30 million people to listen to your podcast. If 10,000 people listen to your podcast, which is not a hard number to achieve, then 10,000 people are listening, and you can build a community, and literally change the world just recording into a microphone.
 - There’s a lot of laughing on a horror movie set. They’re magical in that way.
 - I do lots of crowd work in my set, because I enjoy writing material through riffing and conversation.
 - There’s not many a man who would get shot and then come visit the family responsible.
 - I was very competitive growing up. I can’t even play chess anymore because I used to play tournament chess in school. There’s too much sense memory of sitting in front of a chess board and getting super intense about it. It’s ruined the game for me.
 - In the ’90s, you couldn’t say the word ‘nerd’ to someone when pitching a show. They would have considered that too niche and wouldn’t have listened.
 - I don’t really read reviews and comments that much. There just isn’t a lot to be gained from it.
 - It’s so much easier to give advice than to take it.
 - I don’t know if the podcast as a medium will ever have the cultural impact that TV and movies do. It may never be super-mainstream.
 - I feel like so much of why I sort of want to work in television is so that people know to come see me live.
 - The goal of almost every comic is to find a comedy voice – a specific point of view that an audience can latch onto.
 - American television constantly tries to co-op British comedy and create their own version of it. Most of the time it doesn’t work; obviously, in the case of ‘The Office,’ it did. But a lot of times, it doesn’t really work.
 - One of the many reasons why I love stand-up so much is when you’re performing, you get instant feedback. You know if stuff is working right away.
 - If you wish to achieve any success in this life, do your best to surround yourself with an orgy of good choices.
 - I’m fascinated by people’s process. Everyone’s process is a little bit different, and just to see the different paths that people take to get where they are is really interesting to me.
 - Do you think Patrick Swayze now goes up behind people in pottery classes and hugs them just to crack up other ghosts?
 - Alcohol is like pouring smiles on your brain.
 - I learned not to confuse ‘busy’ with ‘productive,’ but I’m still far too addicted to email to resist its early-morning digital snuggles.
 - I think doing the podcast may have been one of the best career decisions I’ve ever made in my life.
 - I’ve seen nerdists make tributes to their obsessions out of Legos that are like works of art. It just goes to show you how pervasive this stuff has become in our culture. It really is an ideology that you can subscribe to now.
 - I think being an outcast is what sort of strengthens the nerd movement, because you’re isolated, so you have time.
 - If you have laser-like brain it’s not always focused on the most productive things. If you want to play Halo: Reach all day, that’s fine, but if you want to accomplish some other things, here are some ways to do that using your innate nerd gifts.
 - Traditionally nerd-based culture is now a big sector of pop culture.
 - Nerds get caught up in minutiae, because there is a tremendous and fulfilling sense of control in understanding every single detail of a thing more than any other living creature.
 - The lifeblood of YouTube is sharing.
 - Comic-Con is interesting because there’s so much going on at once, it’s literally impossible to do everything. You need clones and some sort of hoverboard so you can surf over the crowd of packed-in nerds.
 - As someone who’s very nerd-minded, whenever I see a lot of cross-platform stuff when I get bonus material on either side, then it makes me want to dive deeper, sort of like tearing apart the different pieces of the pie.
 - Mainstream culture is like your mom: It’s always a little late to catch on and gets easily confused by technology, but it means well.
 - It’s funny: when I first started getting vocal about how much I liked ‘Doctor Who,’ I didn’t realize how deep the fan base was.
 - The idea of the archetypal nerd is totally blurred these days. So many people of this current generation have grown up with technology and video games. It’s just a part of the world now, a part of our shared culture.
 - Just as someone who’s been interested in radio and programming for so long, I can usually tell when an interviewer is doing a segment just to fill a programming slot. They ask questions, but they don’t care about the answers.
 - The nerdist movement is less about consumers; there is a large contingent that are creative nerdists instead of consumers.
 - As a comedy nerd, I get a lot out of the podcast because I’m genuinely interested in the people I’m talking to.
 - There’s something about shooting webs out of my wrists and climbing up things that just makes me happy.
 - Don’t tell television, but there is some superior programming being made on the Interwebz.
 - I’ve always had a fondness for that satirical, Terry Gilliam – esque evil corporate megastructure, the kind of business that hangs banners that say making your life better as it throws kittens into the gears.
 - I have opinions about the differences between Memphis barbecue and Texas barbecue. Put me in the kitchen and you’ll see how Southern I can be.
 - Trying to make strangers laugh is crazy and more than a little narcissistic.
 - Steve Martin said that philosophy is good for comedy because it screws up your thinking just enough, and I agree with that. Being forced to see life’s metadata is good training for looking for interesting angles on a topic.
 - When you look at your freelance career, it’s really like a mall. And if you look at a mall, it’s a self-contained system that has a flow and logic to it. You’ll probably have one or two really bigger jobs, those are like your anchor stores.

131 quotes