 - Our fear of technology is really a fear of empowerment. We now have the ability to design the reality we live in, and we have to step up to the occasion.
 - It’s not that MySpace lost and Facebook won. It’s that MySpace won first, and Facebook won next. They’ll go down in the same order.
 - Invest in people who will take care of you when you’re old.
 - Facebook’s successor will no doubt provide an easy ‘migration utility’ through which you can bring all your so-called friends with you, if you even want to.
 - Once everyone is connected to everyone and everything else, nothing matters anymore. If everyone in the world is your Facebook friend, then why have any Facebook friends at all? We’re back where we started. The ultimate complexity is just another entropy.
 - I went to Cal Arts and AFI, and I worked on ‘Bonfire Of The Vanities.’ I got this grant from the Academy to be Brian De Palma’s apprentice director. And it was such a harrowing, disillusioning, awful experience.
 - Everything we do in the digital realm – from surfing the Web to sending an e-mail to conducting a credit card transaction to, yes, making a phone call – creates a data trail. And if that trail exists, chances are someone is using it – or will be soon enough.
 - The early cyberpunk idea was that networked computers would let us do our work at home, as freelancers, and then transact directly with peers over networks. Digital technology would create tremendous slack, allow us to apply its asynchronous, decentralized qualities to our own work and lives.
 - A society that’s addicted to narratives with beginnings, middles, and endings will eventually yearn to end. We just want it to end.
 - To buy an Apple product is to bet on the longevity of the closed system to which we’ve committed ourselves. And that system is embodied – through marketing as much as talent – by Steve Jobs.
 - New technologies are wreaking havoc on employment figures – from EZpasses ousting toll collectors to Google-controlled self-driving automobiles rendering taxicab drivers obsolete.
 - Think ‘Game of Thrones.’ In the old days, this sort of show might be considered bad writing. It doesn’t really seem to be moving toward a crisis or climax, it has no true protagonist, and it’s structured less like a TV show or a movie than a soap opera.
 - Beyond the hype, style, and speculation, the truth is that the iPad is really just another tablet device. A really big PDA, where a touchscreen does what a laptop’s keyboard used to do.
 - We are looking at a society increasingly dependent on machines, yet decreasingly capable of making or even using them effectively.
 - If the clockwork universe equated the human body with the mechanics of the clock, the digital universe now equates human consciousness with the processing of the computer. We joke that things don’t compute, that we need a reboot, or that our memory has been wiped.
 - Virtual simulations allow post-traumatic stress disorder sufferers to re-experience the events that traumatized them, and then slowly desensitize themselves to their impact through repeated recreations involving not just sight and sound but even smell.
 - I don’t want to sound like some old person pining for how things used to be, because I’m not. But walking down the street, for example, used to be a public activity; you’d see the other people.
 - I find myself unable to let go of the sense that human beings are somehow special, and that moment-to-moment human experience contains a certain unquantifiable essence. I still suspect there is something too quirky, too paradoxical, or too interpersonal to be imitated or re-created by machine life.
 - When things begin accelerating wildly out of control, sometimes patience is the only answer. Press pause.
 - The competitive advantage professional journalism enjoys over the free is just that: professional journalists, whose paid positions give them the time and resources they need to commit more fully to the task. If we can’t do better, so be it.
 - The function of a book is to provide a reading experience.
 - The tribal community lived in the totality of circular time; the farmers of God’s universe understood before and after; workers of the clockwork universe lived by the tick; and we creatures of the digital era must relate to the pulse.
 - Most of us still haven’t grasped the fact that everything we commit to the digital space – not just our public blogs and broadcast tweets, but every private text message, email, and voicemail is likely to be stored and accessible. Forever.
 - Your email inbox is a bit like a Las Vegas roulette machine. You know, you just check it and check it, and every once in a while there’s some juicy little tidbit of reward, like the three quarters that pop down on a one-armed bandit. And that keeps you coming back for more.
 - On Facebook, your past comes into your present when someone from your second grade class suddenly pops up to send you a message, and your future is being manipulated by what Facebook knows to put in front of you next.
 - We all know the feeling of surrendering to the embedded biases of our devices. We let our cell phones ping us every time there’s an incoming message and check our e-mail even when we’d best pay attention to what’s going on around us in the real world. We text while driving.
 - Digital time does not flow; it flicks. Like any binary, discrete decision, it is either here or there. In contrast to our experience of the passing of time, digital time is always in the now, or in no time. It is still. Poised.
 - The horrible truth is we are linear beings; we can’t multitask, and we shouldn’t keep interrupting important connections to each other with the latest message coming in.
 - Books have souls. Or so romantics like me tend to think.
 - The hours Facebook users put into their profiles and lists and updates is the labor that Facebook then sells to the market researchers and advertisers it serves.
 - Imagine what it would be like if you didn’t know that the evening news was funded primarily by ‘Big Pharma.’ You would actually believe the stuff that they’re saying. You might even think those are the stories that matter.
 - Brains are tricky and adaptable organs. For all the ‘neuroplasticity’ allowing our brains to reconfigure themselves to the biases of our computers, we are just as neuroplastic in our ability to eventually recover and adapt.
 - Computers don’t kill books; people do.
 - While Google has given away pretty much everything it has to offer – from search and maps to email and apps – this has always been part of its greater revenue model: the pennies per placement it gets for seeding the entire Google universe of search and services with ever more targeted advertising.
 - Children are being adultified because our economy is depending on them to make purchasing decisions. So they’re essentially the victims of a marketing and capitalist machine gone awry.
 - I think the only way to behave is as if nothing is private. And then fight to make what you care about legal and acceptable.
 - Most Internet business theorists are really looking at preserving the necks of giant, Fortune 500 companies, rather than promoting the digital, peer-to-peer economy that actually wants to happen.
 - Digital technology is both arousing and distancing. We don’t look at the users on the other side as people. They aren’t – they’re just usernames, Facebook photos and Twitter handles.
 - When digital culture first came along, it was supposed to create more time, by allowing us to shift time around. Somehow instead we’ve strapped devices to ourselves that ping us all the time.
 - We’ve been taught that the renaissance was one of the great golden ages of civilisation. The renaissance was not a golden age, it was the end of a golden age.
 - Like most early enthusiasts, I always thought the way the Internet encouraged multitasking made users less vulnerable to manipulation, while simultaneously exploiting even more of our brain’s capacity than before. Apparently not.
 - Google did a great job hacking the Web to create search – and then monetizing search with advertising. And Apple did a great job humanizing hardware and software so that formerly daunting computers and applications could become consumer-friendly devices – even a lifestyle brand.
 - Just as infinite access to free music ultimately leads to no one making a living at music anymore, free journalism just doesn’t pay for itself – particularly not when a search engine is serving all the ads.
 - If the end of the twentieth century can be characterized by futurism, the twenty-first can be defined by presentism.
 - Google is in a position where it doesn’t even have to strive to become a hip, conscious choice. Brands are temporary fads. Functionality is forever. Google just has to ‘be,’ and everyone will end up there sooner or later.
 - Unfortunately, for the vast majority of us, a vast majority of the time, we surrender our true autonomy to this illusion of agency. I’m as guilty as anybody, and I write about it in a book. I’m not condemning anybody.
 - Open source is a beautiful way of collaborating; but what’s happening on the free Internet is more akin to the ‘crowdsourcing’ of journalists and other content creators by advertisers who no longer have to pay them – only the search engines that parse their articles.
 - I feel like Hollywood would rather end the emerging, bottom-up creative culture than let it happen.
 - By turning every Yahoo search box into a Bing box, Microsoft may have bought itself the exposure it needs to be the next Google.
 - As a digital technology writer, I have had more than one former student and colleague tell me about digital switchers they have serviced through which calls and data are diverted to government servers or the big data algorithms they’ve written to be used on our e-mails by intelligence agencies.
 - I regard any behavior we indulge in as a game. The soul is beyond not only three-dimensional space but beyond the illusion of linear time. Any method we use to move through three- or four- dimensional space is a game. It doesn’t matter how serious we take it, or how serious its consequences are.
 - In the industrial age and in analog clocks, a minute is some portion of an hour which is some portion of a day. You know, in the digital age, a minute is just a number. It’s just 3:23. It’s almost this absolute duration that doesn’t have a connection to where the sun is or where our day is.
 - We are moving away from myths and toward fantasy role-playing games, away from movies and toward videogames.
 - Like the diminishing beauty returns for a facially paralyzed Botox addict, the more forcefully we attempt to stop the passage of time, the less available we are to the very moment we seek to preserve.
 - The outsourcing of our memory to machines expands the amount of data to which we have access, but degrades our brain’s own ability to remember things.
 - The liberation children experience when they discover the Internet is quickly counteracted by the lure of e-commerce web sites, which are customized to each individual user’s psychological profile in order to maximize their effectiveness.
 - As a writer and sometime activist who needs to promote my books and articles and occasionally rally people to one cause or another, I found Facebook fast and convenient. Though I never really used it to socialize, I figured it was OK to let other people do that, and I benefited from their behavior.
 - For Google, the problem with being a free, abundant, and rather infinite set of services is that it’s hard to create much of a stir about anything. There are so many major software service options under the ‘more’ menu on the Gmail page that they’ve had to go and add a final item called ‘even more.’
 - It feels as if ever since the iPhone was released, the Macintosh computer has become just another leverage point in this other operating system’s marketing plan.
 - Removed from ‘Gmail’ doesn’t necessarily mean removed from all Google servers. In fact, your old emails are the data set from which Google models our behaviors – the real product it is offering its advertisers.
 - Ecstacy stripped away the user’s inhibitions to self-expression. On E, lies are inefficient, and the peculiarities or weaknesses they are meant to obscure no longer seem like offenses against nature.
 - I’m not a communist, just a media theorist.
 - The reason why Apple computers have worked so well over time is that, unlike Microsoft, they don’t bend over backward to be compatible with every piece of hardware or software in the digital universe. To code or create for Apple, you follow Apple’s rules. If you’re even allowed to.
 - What makes a great standalone piece of hardware is not the same thing as what makes a great networking device. One can work as an essentially closed system. The other is absolutely dependent on its openness.
 - Like civil-rights protesters who sang rousing hymns as they were carried off to jail, Twitterers are bearing witness to what’s happening around them, and calling out into the darkness of cyberspace for confirmation. I’m here. You’re here, too. We are present.
 - Online advertising may not be much more successful than an old double-barrel, but – like a good spray of buckshot – it makes up for its lack of accuracy with sheer volume. There are 10 unique ads listed with every Gmail message in your queue, each tied to the message content. And a paying sponsor.
 - No matter how much control kids get over the media they watch, they are still utterly powerless when it comes to the manufacturing of brands. Even a consumer revolt merely reinforces one’s role as a consumer, not an autonomous or creative being.
 - Technology has moved away from sharing and toward ownership. This suits software and hardware companies just fine: They create new, bloated programs that require more disk space and processing power. We buy bigger, faster computers, which then require more complex operating systems, and so on.
 - If money can’t be made reporting and writing articles, then professionals simply can’t do it anymore. Unless we adopt the position that the amateur blogosphere is really capable of taking on the role that the ‘New York Times’ and CNN play, then we do need solutions for paying for content.
 - A currency designed for long-term storage and investment doesn’t do so well at encouraging transactions and exchange in the moment.
 - As a professional journalist who nonetheless champions a ‘people’s’ Internet, I am happy to compete against the thousands of amateur bloggers out there reporting and commenting on the same stories I do.
 - We have the alternative. “Do I want to be on the subway looking at these people, or do I want to be in my phone looking at my people?”
 - Unlike the Tea Party, who see themselves as the customers of government, people in the Occupy Wall Street movement understand that we are the government. Stated most simply, we are trying to run a 21st-century society on a 13th-century economic operating system. It just doesn’t work.
 - No matter how invasive the technologies at their disposal, marketers and pollsters never come to terms with the living process through which people choose products or candidates; they are looking at what people just bought or thought, and making calculations based on that after-the-fact data.
 - I do remember the moment when, as a child, I realized that the things we call ‘TV shows’ are really just the stuff that gets put between commercials. Later, I came to see that the kinds of things that get on ‘free’ TV are shows that help sell products.
 - We do not live in an economy, we live in a Ponzi scheme.
 - The industrial age was not about craftspeople trading peer to peer. It was about stopping that. You weren’t supposed to be a craftsperson, you were supposed to be an employee.
 - Mobile notifications put people in a state of perpetual emergency interruption – similar to what 911 operators and air traffic controllers experienced back in the ’70s and ’80s.
 - Our technologies become more complex while we become more simple. They learn about us while we come to know less and less about them. No one person can understand everything going on in an iPhone, much less pervasive systems.
 - The plague did not lead to Europe’s economic collapse. Rather, Europe’s currency-driven economic collapse led to the plague.
 - Since the dawn of the Internet, I have always operated under the assumption that if the government or corporations have technological capability to do something, they are doing it – whatever the laws we happen to know about might say.
 - With the DVR, I was mostly writing about it as a good thing in giving us the choice of when and how to watch things. But there’s what we lose in the bargain, which is the collective spectacle. ‘Did you see Jay Leno last night?’
 - Files on iTunes – and thus iPods – are incompatible with everything else. Applications on iPhones may only be sold and uploaded through the iPhone store – giving Apple control over everything people put on to the devices they thought they owned.
 - The first step toward maintaining autonomy in any programmed environment is to be aware that there’s programming going on. It’s as simple as understanding the commercials are there to help sell things. And that TV shows are there to sell commercials, and so on.
 - People are seduced by signals from the world, but that is manipulation, not reality. Computers have learned more about us than we’ve learned about them.
 - Walkman was the precursor to the cell phone, in terms of your strategy for getting through the urban landscape and the modern experience. Insulate yourself from it with your own soundscape.
 - Overwinding happens when hedge funds destroy companies by attempting to leverage derivatives against otherwise productive long-term assets.
 - Once a teen has been identified as part of the ‘target market,’ he knows he’s done for. The object of the game is to confound the marketers, and keep one’s own, authentic culture from showing up at the shopping mall as a prepackaged corporate product.
 - Global warming, you don’t win it. It’s this weird steady-state issue that’s going to be with us for a few thousand years.
 - The iPad – contrary to the way most people thought about it – is not a tablet computer running the Apple operating system. It’s more like a very big iPhone, running the iPhone operating system.
 - New content online no longer requires new stories or information, just new ways of linking things to other things. Or as the social networks might put it to you, ‘Jane is now friends with Tom.’ The connection has been made; the picture is getting more complete.
 - I feel like the smartest people in my field are busy reinforcing the old models with new technology.
 - Every new computer program is basically doing some task that a person used to do. But the computer usually does it faster, more accurately, for less money, and without any health insurance costs.
 - The cloud is still really just a bunch of servers, owned by someone or something, whose decisions and competence must be trusted. This applies to everything from Google Docs to Gmail: Putting our data out there really means putting it ‘out there.’
 - As Apple continues to release new styles of netbooks, laptops, and even desktops with untold movie-watching and game-playing capabilities, I wouldn’t be surprised to see the iPhone operating system running on them – and the Macintosh eventually becoming a thing of the past.
 - The new Zune may not be an iPod killer, but it does offer a clean interface, great industrial design, HD radio, and a subscription model for music, making it significantly less expensive for big users.
 - Your next SMS will probably be around longer, and remain more legible, than your tombstone. For, unlike your tombstone or even your mortal coil, your texts may be worth something.
 - Occupy is anything but a protest movement. That’s why it has been so hard for news agencies to express or even discern the ‘demands’ of the growing legions of Occupy participants around the nation, and even the world.

98 quotes