 - Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; remember that what you now have was once among the things you only hoped for.
 - Self-sufficiency is the greatest of all wealth .
 - Is God willing to prevent evil, but not able? Then he is not omnipotent. Is he able, but not willing? Then he is malevolent. Is he both able and willing? Then whence cometh evil? Is he neither able nor willing? Then why call him God?
 - Why should I fear death? If I am, death is not. If death is, I am not. Why should I fear that which can only exist when I do not?
 - The art of living well and the art of dying well are one.
 - You don’t develop courage by being happy in your relationships everyday. You develop it by surviving difficult times and challenging adversity.
 - Not what we have But what we enjoy, constitutes our abundance.
 - Death is nothing to us, since when we are, death has not come, and when death has come, we are not.
 - Happiness is man’s greatest aim in life. Tranquility and rationality are the cornerstones of happiness.
 - Death does not concern us, because as long as we exist, death is not here. And when it does come, we no longer exist.
 - Luxurious food and drinks, in no way protect you from harm. Wealth beyond what is natural, is no more use than an overflowing container. Real value is not generated by theaters, and baths, perfumes or ointments, but by philosophy.
 - He who has peace of mind disturbs neither himself nor another.
 - The knowledge of sin is the beginning of salvation.
 - Nothing is enough for the man to whom enough is too little.
 - The misfortune of the wise is better than the prosperity of the fool.
 - Neither one should hesitate about dedicating oneself to philosophy when young, nor should get tired of doing it when one’s old, because no one is ever too young or too old to reach one’s soul’s healthy.
 - If you would enjoy real freedom, you must be the slave of Philosophy.
 - Freedom is the greatest fruit of self sufficiency.
 - Don’t fear god, Don’t worry about death; What is good is easy to get, and What is terrible is easy to endure.
 - But the universe is infinite.
 - The greater the difficulty, the more the glory in surmounting it.
 - Where I am death is not, where death is I am not.
 - Being happy is knowing how to be content with little.
 - I have never wished to cater to the crowd; for what I know they do not approve, and what they approve I do not know.
 - Of all the means to insure happiness throughout the whole life, by far the most important is the acquisition of friends.
 - Only the just man enjoys peace of mind.
 - If God listened to the prayers of men, all men would quickly have perished: for they are forever praying for evil against one another.
 - It is vain to ask of the gods what man is capable of supplying for himself.
 - Do everything like someone is gazing at you.
 - The fool, with all his other faults, has this also, he is always getting ready to live.
 - The things you really need are few and easy to come by; but the things you can imagine you need are infinite, and you will never be satisfied.
 - God is all-powerful. God is perfectly good. Evil exists. If God exists, there would be no evil. Therefore God does not exist.
 - The fool’s life is empty of gratitude and full of fears; its course lies wholly toward the future.
 - The time when most of you should withdraw into yourself is when you are forced to be in a crowd.
 - I spit upon luxurious pleasures, not for their own sake, but because of the inconveniences that follow them.
 - Let no one be slow to seek wisdom when he is young nor weary in the search of it when he has grown old. For no age is too early or too late for the health of the soul.
 - Many friends are the key to happiness.
 - Stranger, here you will do well to tarry; here our highest good is pleasure.
 - It is impossible to live a pleasant life without living wisely and well and justly. And it is impossible to live wisely and well and justly without living a pleasant life.
 - In a philosophical dispute, he gains most who is defeated, since he learns most.
 - Pleasure is the first good. It is the beginning of every choice and every aversion. It is the absence of pain in the body and of troubles in the soul.
 - It is folly for a man to pray to the gods for that which he has the power to obtain by himself.
 - Be moderate in order to taste the joys of life in abundance.
 - Let no young man delay the study of philosophy, and let no old man become weary of it; for it is never too early nor too late to care for the well-being of the soul.
 - There is nothing terrible in life for the man who realizes there is nothing terrible in death.
 - If thou wilt make a man happy, add not unto his riches but take away from his desires.
 - Gratitude is a virtue that has commonly profit annexed to it.
 - Riches do not exhilarate us so much with their possession as they torment us with their loss.
 - Skillful pilots gain their reputation from storms and tempest.
 - We have been born once and there can be no second birth. Fir all eternity we shall no longer be. But you, although you are not master of tomorrow, are postponing your happiness...
 - Thanks be to blessed Nature that she has made what is necessary easy to obtain, and what is not easy unnecessary.
 - All friendship is desirable in itself, though it starts from the need of help.
 - Empty is the argument of the philosopher which does not relieve any human suffering.
 - I would rather be first in a little Iberian village than second in Rome.
 - Virtue consisteth of three parts, – temperance, fortitude, and justice.
 - Remember that the future is neither ours nor wholly not ours, so that we may neither count on it as sure to come nor abandon hope of it as certain not to be.
 - He who needs riches least, enjoys riches most.
 - Most men are in a coma when they are at rest and mad when they act.
 - A strong belief in fate is the worst kind of slavery; on the other hand, there is a comfort in the thought that God will be moved by our prayers.
 - I was not; I have been; I am not; I do not mind.
 - Pleasure is the beginning and the end of living happily. Epicurus taught: Pleasure, defined as freedom from pain, is the highest good.
 - He who understands the limits of life knows that it is easy to obtain that which removes the pain of want and makes the whole of life complete and perfect. Thus he has no longer any need of things which involve struggle.
 - No pleasure is evil in itself; but the means by which certain pleasures are gained bring pains many times greater than the pleasures.
 - He who doesn’t find a little enough will find nothing enough.
 - Any man who does not think that what he has is more than ample, is an unhappy man, even if he is the master of the whole world.
 - We cannot live pleasantly without living wisely and nobly and righteously.
 - A man who causes fear cannot be free from fear.
 - A beneficent person is like a fountain watering the earth, and spreading fertility; it is, therefore, more delightful to give than to receive.
 - Against other things it is possible to obtain security, but when it comes to death we human beings all live in an unwalled city.
 - Never say that I have taken it, only that I have given it back.
 - We should look for someone to eat and drink with before looking for something to eat and drink.
 - The summit of pleasure is the elimination of all that gives pain.
 - What men fear is not that death is annihilation but that it is not.
 - Most beautiful is the sight of those near and dear to us when our original kinship makes us of one mind.
 - My garden does not whet the appetite; it satisfies it. It does not provoke thirst through heedless indulgence, but slakes it by proffering its natural remedy. Amid such pleasures as these have I grown old.
 - Death is nothing to us: for that which is dissolved is without sensation; and that which lacks sensation is nothing to us.
 - Why are you afraid of death? Where you are, death is not. Where death is, you are not. What is it that you fear.
 - All other love is extinguished by self-love; beneficence, humanity, justice, philosophy, sink under it.
 - A strict belief in fate is the worst of slavery, imposing upon our necks an everlasting lord and tyrant, whom we are to stand in awe of night and day.
 - Man was not intended by nature to live in communities and be civilized.
 - Misfortune seldom intrudes upon the wise man; his greatest and highest interests are directed by reason throughout the course of life.
 - I never desired to please the rabble. What pleased them, I did not learn; and what I knew was far removed from their understanding.
 - The words of that philosopher who offers no therapy for human suffering are empty and vain.
 - It is possible to provide security against other ills, but as far as death is concerned, we men live in a city without walls.
 - Is he neither able nor willing? Then why call him God?
 - Live your life without attracting attention.
 - The wealth required by nature is limited and is easy to procure; but the wealth required by vain ideals extends to infinity.
 - Those desires that do not bring pain if they are not satisfied are not necessary; and they are easily thrust aside whenever to satisfy them appears difficult or likely to cause injury.
 - The mind that is much elevated and insolent with prosperity, and cast down with adversity, is generally abject and base.
 - The guilty man may escape, but he cannot be sure of doing so.
 - The magnitude of pleasure reaches its limit in the removal of all pain. When such pleasure is present, so long as it is uninterrupted, there is no pain either of body or of mind or of both together.
 - Men are so thoughtless, nay, so mad, that some, through fear of death, force themselves to die.
 - When someone admits one and rejects another which is equally in accordance with the appearances, it is clear that he has quitted all physical explanation and descended into myth.
 - Pleasure is the beginning and the end of living happily.
 - To eat and drink without a friend is to devour like the lion and the wolf.
 - A blessed and indestructible being has no trouble himself and brings no trouble upon any other being; so he is free from anger and partiality, for all such things imply weakness.
 - Of all the things which wisdom provides to make us entirely happy, much the greatest is the possession of friendship.
 - Natural wealth is limited and easily obtained; the wealth defined by vain fancies is always beyond reach.
 - There is no such thing as justice in the abstract; it is merely a compact between men.
 - Justice is a contract of expediency, entered upon to prevent men harming or being harmed.
 - Natural justice is a compact resulting from expediency by which men seek to prevent one man from injuring others and to protect him from being injured by them.
 - He who says either that the time for philosophy has not yet come or that it has passed is like someone who says that the time for happiness has not yet come or that it has passed.
 - He who is not satisfied with a little, is satisfied with nothing .
 - A free life cannot acquire many possessions, because this is not easy to do without servility to mobs or monarchs.
 - We begin every act of choice and avoidance from pleasure, and it is to pleasure that we return using our experience of pleasure as the criterion of every good thing.
 - Justice is never anything in itself, but in the dealings of men with one another in any place whatever and at any time. It is a kind of compact not to harm or be harmed.
 - We ought to be thankful to nature for having made those things which are necessary easy to be discovered; while other things that are difficult to be known are not necessary.
 - There is no such thing as justice or injustice among those beasts that cannot make agreements not to injure or be injured. This is also true of those tribes that are unable or unwilling to make agreements not to injure or be injured.
 - The wise man thinks of fame just enough to avoid being despised.
 - Of all the gifts that wise Providence grants us to make life full and happy, friendship is the most beautiful.
 - For a wrongdoer to be undetected is difficult; and for him to have confidence that his concealment will continue is impossible.
 - When we exist, death is not yet present, and when death is present, then we do not exist.
 - The noble soul occupies itself with wisdom and friendship.
 - The man least dependent upon the morrow goes to meet the morrow most cheerfully.
 - Earthquakes may be brought about because wind is caught up in the earth, so the earth is dislocated in small masses and is continually shaken, and that causes it to sway.
 - As if they were our own handiwork we place a high value on our characters.
 - Without confidence, there is no friendship.
 - Launch your boat, blessed youth, and flee at full speed from every form of culture.
 - Let no one delay the study of philosophy while young nor weary of it when old.
 - Justice has no independent existence; it results from mutual contracts, and establishes itself wherever there is a mutual engagement to guard against doing or sustaining mutual injury.
 - We must consider both the ultimate end and all clear sensory evidence, to which we refer our opinions; for otherwise everything will be full of uncertainty and confusion.
 - Let nothing be done in your life, which will cause you fear if it becomes known to your neighbor.
 - There is no such thing as justice in the abstract; it is merely a compact between men in their various relations with each other, in whatever circumstances they may be, that they will neither injure nor be injured.
 - It is impossible for someone to dispel his fears about the most important matters if he doesn’t know the nature of the universe but still gives some credence to myths. So without the study of nature there is no enjoyment of pure pleasure.
 - We must meditate on what brings happiness, since when it has, it has everything, and when he misses, we do everything to have it.
 - Injustice is not evil in itself, but only in the fear and apprehension that one will not escape those who have been set up to punish the offense.
 - All sensations are true; pleasure is our natural goal.
 - The wise man who has become accustomed to necessities knows better how to share with others than how to take from them, so great a treasure of self-sufficiency has he found.
 - It is better for you to be free of fear lying upon a pallet, than to have a golden couch and a rich table and be full of trouble.
 - If the gods have the will to remove evil and cannot, then they are not all-powerful. If they are neither able nor willing, they are neither all-powerful or benevolent. If they are both able and willing to annihilate evil, why does it exist?
 - The honor paid to a wise man is a great good for those who honor him.
 - Some men spend their whole life furnishing for themselves the things proper to life without realizing that at our birth each of us was poured a mortal brew to drink.
 - Necessity is an evil; but there is no necessity for continuing to live subject to necessity.
 - There is nothing to fear from gods, There is nothing to feel in death, Good can be attained, Evil can be endured.
 - Fortune seldom troubles the wise man. Reason has controlled his greatest and most important affairs, controls them throughout his life, and will continue to control them.
 - Any device whatever by which one frees himself from the fear of others is a natural good.
 - Pleasure is our first and kindred good. It is the starting point of every choice and of every aversion, and to it we always come back, inasmuch as we make feeling the rule by which to judge of every good thing.
 - What will happen to me if that which this desire seeks is achieved, and what if it is not?
 - The term “incorporeal” is properly applied only to the void, which cannot act or be acted on. Since the soul can act and be acted upon, it is corporeal.
 - To be rich is not the end, but only a change, of worries.

140 quotes