 - God always wants what’s best for us, just as you want what’s best for someone you really love. You put them before you, and God does that too. God puts us before His Son, who He sacrificed for our salvation. But the Son did it voluntarily because He has the love of the Father before us.
 - That question in marriage is mutual submission, really – the next verse goes on: “husbands love your wife as Christ loves the Church.”
 - The fact that God knows everything does not mean that He is directly causing everything. He respects our freedom at our level. He makes it possible for us to act freely. If He didn’t, we wouldn’t act at all – we wouldn’t be at all.
 - So, in every case if you really love someone there is an element of submission to them because you want what’s best for them, and at times they’re going to tell you what’s best for them. Even if you have second thoughts about it, you’ll probably still do it because you love them.
 - Faith is not a contract. Faith is surrender. If no other relationship in our experience is one of self-surrender, if it’s all contractual, people won’t know how to believe.
 - Religion doesn’t start with a set of laws or rules and it doesn’t start with a set of ideas. It starts with an encounter, with the living God and in our case, Christ risen from the dead. In that encounter you meet someone you can trust. That’s faith: trust in truth.
 - God’s is the causality at the level of our being, and therefore the roots of our freedom. Ours in causality is determinative of what kind of being we’re going to be through our free choices, what kind of action we are going to do through our decisions.
 - Equality, therefore, becomes the criterion because we can handle all that in process, but we can’t handle that as principle without infringing on freedom.
 - The primary moral judgment on candidates and their positions is to be made in the light of their concern for protecting human life from conception to natural death.
 - From a Christian perspective, the answer to all of that is not power, as it is in the modern perspective. It’s love. It’s self-sacrifice. That’s what love is all about. The marriage ceremony says it very well: sacrifice is difficult, but love can make it a joy.
 - If you, however, separate reason and faith so that it’s purely a rationalistic scheme, it will end in violence. If a pure faith scheme – sometimes called the fundamentalist scheme in modern parlance – you’ll end in violence too.
 - The trust is a matter of love and faith is a matter of truth. The two together give you the guidance that you look for.
 - The Church is our Mother, which means it is an internal voice. It is not a set of external rules. That’s what isn’t understood about Catholicism in this Protestant culture. It means that your conscience is formed by the Church, but in the end you’re responsible for your own activities.
 - There is the enormous corpus of Islamic law that is very rich. However, law is one rational exercise of reason. Philosophy is very different. Philosophy wants to try to understand everything. It is a better dialogue partner with faith than law.
 - Christ didn’t leave us a book of instructions; He left us a body, a family – a Church. If it were perfectly clear, there wouldn’t be any freedom.
 - The question about who God is is a very public question. We don’t have the tools in this kind of political atmosphere to handle that, and maybe politics isn’t the best place to answer that. It is a public issue.

16 quotes