 - All politicians should be required to drink Ayahuasca 10 times before taking office.
 - It may be that DMT makes us able to perceive what the physicist call “dark matter” – the 95 per cent of the universe’s mass that is known to exist but that at present remains invisible to our senses and instruments.
 - I don’t believe that consciousness is generated by the brain. I believe that the brain is more of a reciever of consciousness.
 - I think it’s obvious that the psychedelics are demonized and illegalized by our society because somewhere in our society are controlling minds that realize that these substances have the potential, have the power to unpick the controlling hierarchy.
 - There are all kinds of ways to challenge ourselves. Some people do it by climbing a mountain or scuba diving. The most profound and challenging ordeals is to drink Ayahuasca. It is in a way the ultimate adventure.
 - Do we as adults have the right to make decisions about what we put in our own bodies and what we experience with our own consciousness without reference to the powers of the state, or must we seek permission from the state in order to explore our own consciousness?
 - People think I’m a freemason, and I’m not. People think I believe the end of the world is coming on 21 December 2012, and I don’t.
 - This beautiful Earth that we have, this gift that the Universe has given us is precious beyond measure, precious beyond imagination, and we are part of it and we must treat it with Love, respect, and reverence.
 - The use of language around drugs is really important. So we find that it’s increasingly difficult in our society to find the word “drug” not connected to the word “abuse.” The notion of a responsible use of drugs is written out in the language of our culture.
 - I see myself as a journalist reporting neglected stories about our past and trying to bring rigor, reason and intuition to the quest.
 - If this is how science operates, by silencing those who express opposing views rather than by debating with them, then science is dead and we are in a new era of the Inquisition.
 - Any kind of consciousness that is not related to the production or consumption of material goods is stigmatized in our society today.
 - Science has often resisted new ideas and fought bitterly to prevent them coming on board.

13 quotes