 - Physical fitness is the first requisite of happiness.
 - Change happens through movement and movement heals.
 - In 10 sessions you’ll feel the difference, in 20 you’ll see the difference, and in 30 you’ll have a new body.
 - You are only as young as your spine is flexible.
 - The Pilates Method teaches you to be in control of your body and not at its mercy.
 - Every moment of our life can be the beginning of great things.
 - Above all, learn to breathe correctly.
 - Everyone is the architect of their own happiness.
 - It’s the mind itself which shapes the body.
 - Contrology is complete coordination of body, mind, and spirit.
 - If your spine is inflexibly stiff at 30, you are old. IF it is completely flexible at 60, you are young.
 - Before any real benefit can be derived from physical exercises, one must first learn how to breath properly. Our very life depends on it.
 - Breathing is the first act of life and the last. Our very life depends on it. Since we cannot live without breathing it is tragically deplorable to contemplate the millions and millions who have never mastered the art of correct breathing.
 - Not only is health a normal condition, but it is our duty not only to attain it but to maintain it.
 - Never slouch as doing so compresses the lungs, overcrowds other vital organs, rounds the back, and throws you off balance.
 - Physical fitness can neither be achieved by wishful thinking nor outright purchase.
 - Good posture can be successfully acquired only when the entire mechanism of the body is under perfect control.
 - Contrology develops the body uniformly, corrects wrong postures, restores physical vitality, invigorates the mind, and elevates the spirit.
 - The man who uses intelligence with respect to his diet, his sleeping habits and who exercises properly, is beyond any question of doubt taking the very best preventive medicines provided so freely and abundantly by nature.
 - Civilization impairs physical fitness.
 - Contrology is designed to give you suppleness, natural grace, and skill that will be unmistakably reflected in the way you walk, in the way you play, and in the way you work.
 - By all means never fail to get all the sunshine and fresh air you can.
 - Patience and persistence are vital qualities in the ultimate successful accomplishment of any worthwhile endeavor.
 - The mind, when housed within a healthful body, possesses a glorious sense of power.
 - Pilates is gaining the mastery of your mind over the complete control over your body.
 - A man is as young as his spinal column.
 - When all your muscles are properly developed, you will, as a matter of course, perform your work with minimum effort and maximum pleasure.
 - A few well-designed movements, properly performed in a balanced sequence, are worth hours of doing sloppy calisthenics or forced contortion.
 - Through the Pilates Method of Body Conditioning this unique trinity of a balanced body, mind and spirit can ever be attained. Self-confidence follows.
 - The acquirement and enjoyment of physical well-being, mental calm and spiritual peace are priceless to their possessors...
 - Breathing is the first act of life, and the last.
 - Physical fitness is the first requisite of happiness. In order to achieve happiness, it is imperative to gain mastery of your body. If at the age of 30 you are stiff and out of shape, you are old. If at 60 you are supple and strong then you are young.
 - Because of poor posture, practically 95% of our population suffers from varying degrees of spinal curvature, not to mention more serious ailments. Good posture can be successfully acquired only when the entire mechanism of the body is under perfect control.
 - It is better to be tired from physical exertion than to be fatigued by the ‘poisons’ generated by nervousness while lying awake.
 - You will feel better in ten sessions, look better in twenty sessions, and have a completely new body in thirty sessions.
 - To achieve the highest accomplishments within the scope of our capabilities in all walks of life we must constantly strive to acquire strong, healthy bodies and develop our minds to the limits of our ability.
 - Moreover, such a body freed from nervous tension and over-fatigue is the ideal shelter provided by nature for housing a well-balanced mind that is always fully capable of successfully meeting all of the complex problems of modern living.
 - I must be right. Never an aspirin. Never injured a day in my life. The whole country, the whole world, should be doing my exercises. They’d be happier.
 - Concentrate on the correct movement each time you exercise, lest you do them improperly and thus lose all the vital benefits. Correctly executed and mastered to the point of subconscious reaction, these exercises will reflect grace and balance in your routine activities.
 - Contrology is not a fatiguing system of dull, boring, abhorred exercises repeated daily “ad-nausem”.
 - Man should develop his physical condition simultaneously with that of his mind.
 - Time and progress are synonymous terms – nothing can stop either. Truth will prevail and that is why I know that my teachings will reach the masses and finally be adopted as universal.
 - Contrology is not a fatiguing system of dull, boring, abhorred exercises repeated daily “ad-nauseam.” Neither does it demand you joining a gymnasium nor the purchasing of expensive apparatus. You may derive all the benefits of Contrology in your own home.
 - You must squeeze every atom of impure air from lungs until they are almost as free of air as a vacuum.
 - By exercising your stomach muscles, you wring out the body, you don’t catch colds, you don’t get cancer, you don’t get hernias. Do animals get hernias? Do animals go on diets?
 - Man should bear in mind and ponder over the Greek admonition – Not Too Much, Not Too Little.
 - With body, mind, and spirit functioning perfectly as a coordinated whole, what else could reasonably be expected other than an active, alert, disciplined person?
 - Ideally, our muscles should obey our will. Reasonably, our will should not be dominated by the reflex actions of our muscles.
 - The lungs cannot be completely deflated at first without considerable effort. With perseverance, however, the desired results can be accomplished and with increasing power, gradually and progressively develop the lungs to their maximum capacity.
 - Normal muscles should function naturally in much the same manner as do the muscles of animals.
 - Were man to devote as much time and energy to himself as he has devoted to that which man has produced, what astounding and unbelievable progress would be made; a progress eclipsing all he has so far successfully accomplished...
 - Lazy breathing converts the lungs, literally and figuratively speaking, into a cemetery for the deposition of diseased, dying and dead germs as well as supplying an ideal haven for the multiplication of other harmful germs.
 - As a heavy rainstorm freshens the water of a sluggish or stagnant stream and whips it into immediate action, so does the Pilates Methods purify the bloodstream.
 - True flexibility can be achieved only when all muscles are uniformly developed.

54 quotes