 - Sometimes a good idea comes to you when you are not looking for it. Through an improbable combination of coincidence, naivete and lucky mistakes...
 - I’m not politically correct.
 - Science grows like a weed every year.
 - We are the recipients of scientific method. We can each be a creative and active part of it if we so desire.
 - You can’t ask your pharmacist to stock larger quantities of potassium nitrate because you want to make a bigger rocket.
 - The mystery of that damn virus has been generated by the $2 billion a year they spend on it.
 - Each of us have things and thoughts and descriptions of an amazing universe in our possession that kings in the 17th Century would have gone to war to possess.
 - There is a general place in your brain, I think, reserved for melancholy of relationships past. It grows and prospers as life progresses, forcing you finally, against your better judgment, to listen to country music.
 - In the 1950s in Columbia, South Carolina, it was considered OK for kids to play with weird things. We could go to the hardware store and buy 100 feet of dynamite fuse.
 - People don’t realize that molecules themselves are somewhat hypothetical, and that their interactions are more so, and that the biological reactions are even more so.
 - If reincarnation is a useful biological idea it is certain that somewhere in the universe it will happen.
 - Science consistently produces a new crop of miraculous truths and dazzling devices every year.
 - Scientists are doing an awful lot of damage to the world in the name of helping it. I don’t mind attacking my own fraternity because I am ashamed of it.
 - There are a lot of people for whom psychedelics have been really beneficial. But I wouldn’t recommend it to everyone. Some are just not ready but society would benefit from letting people who are ready for psychedelics have legal acces to them.
 - I like writing about biology, not doing it.
 - I love a microphone and a big crowd; I’m an entertainer, I guess.
 - Fish don’t know much about water, and people didn’t know much about air.
 - Art is subject to arbitrary fashion.
 - Sometimes in the morning, when it’s a good surf, I go out there, and I don’t feel like it’s a bad world.
 - I’ve been writing about my boyhood, when I was a little kid back on my grandfather’s farm where we didn’t know about black widow spiders or all that stuff. But writing about that is so easy.
 - I can say exactly what I feel about any issue, and I’m going to do that.
 - Science, like nothing else among the institutions of mankind, grows like a weed every year. Art is subject to arbitrary fashion, religion is inwardly focused and driven only to sustain itself, law shuttles between freeing us and enslaving us.
 - And all I knew about drugs was what I read in magazines like Time and Life. I learned that marijuana was a dangerous addictive drug and that I should stay away from it.
 - Law shuttles between freeing us and enslaving us.
 - I’m really optimistic in the mornings.
 - I’m not driven by being understood.
 - My mother would give my brothers and me a pile of catalogues and let us pick what we wanted for Christmas.
 - Global warmers predict that global warming is coming, and our emissions are to blame. They do that to keep us worried about our role in the whole thing. If we aren’t worried and guilty, we might not pay their salaries. It’s that simple.
 - I think I might have been stupid in some respects, it if weren’t for my psychedelic experiences.
 - The horror of it is, every goddamn thing you look at seems pretty scary to me.
 - We were fortunate to have the Russians as our childhood enemies. We practiced hiding under our desks in case they had the temerity to drop a nuclear weapon.
 - Science has not been successful by making up explanations of things that fit with the current social fabric.

32 quotes