 - There is no power for change greater than a community discovering what it cares about.
 - Very great change starts from very small conversations, held among people who care.
 - Relationships are all there is. Everything in the universe only exists because it is in relationship to everything else. Nothing exists in isolation. We have to stop pretending we are individuals that can go it alone.
 - It’s not differences that divide us. It’s our judgments about each other that do.
 - When we seek for connection, we restore the world to wholeness. Our seemingly separate lives become meaningful as we discover how truly necessary we are to each other.
 - All social change begins with a conversation.
 - Without reflection, we go blindly on our way, creating more unintended consequences, and failing to achieve anything useful.
 - Listening is such a simple act. It requires us to be present, and that takes practice, but we don’t have to do anything else. We don’t have to advise, or coach, or sound wise. We just have to be willing to sit there and listen.
 - You can’t hate someone whose story you know.
 - Ask what’s possible, not what’s wrong. Keep asking.
 - Change always involves a dark night when everything falls apart. Yet if this period of dissolution is used to create new meaning, then chaos ends and new order emerges.
 - One of the easiest human acts is also the most healing. Listening to someone. Simply listening. Not advising or coaching, but silently and fully listening.
 - Leadership is a series of behaviors rather than a role for heroes.
 - Perseverance is a choice. It’s not a simple, one-time choice, it’s a daily one. There’s never a final decision.
 - Everyone in a complex system has a slightly different interpretation. The more interpretations we gather, the easier it becomes to gain a sense of the whole.
 - Aggression only moves in one direction – it creates more aggression.
 - The future cannot be determined. It can only be experienced as it occurring. Life doesn’t know what it will be until it notices what it has become.
 - Without reflection, we go blindly on our way...
 - Without aggression, it becomes possible to think well, to be curious about differences, and to enjoy each other’s company.
 - In our daily life, we encounter people we are angry, deceitful, intent only on satisfying ere is so their own needs. There is so much anger, distrust, greed, and pettiness that we are losing our capacity to work well together.
 - Aggression only breeds more aggression. It only creates more fear and anger.
 - Power in organizations is the capacity generated by relationships. It is an energy that comes into existence through relationships.
 - The nature of the global business environment guarantees that no matter how hard we work to create a stable and healthy organisation, our organisation will continue to experience dramatic changes far beyond our control.
 - Determination, energy, and courage appear spontaneously when we care deeply about something. We take risks that are unimaginable in any other context.
 - We need to move from the leader as hero, to the leader as host.
 - And time for reflection with colleagues is for me a lifesaver; it is not just a nice thing to do if you have the time. It is the only way you can survive.
 - Even though worker capacity and motivation are destroyed when leaders choose power over productivity, it appears that bosses would rather be in control than have the organization work well.
 - I think we have to notice that the business processes we use right now for thinking and planning and budgeting and strategy are all delivered on very tight agendas.
 - Whatever life we have experienced, if we can tell our story to someone who listens, we find it easier to deal with our circumstances.
 - As we let go of the machine model of work, we begin to step back and see ourselves in new ways, to appreciate wholeness, and to design organizations that honor and make use of the totality of who we are.
 - Life doesn’t move in straight lines, and neither does a good conversation.
 - In organizations, real power and energy is generated through relationships. The patterns of relationships and the capacities to form them are more important than tasks, functions, roles, and positions.
 - Self-production: the characteristic of living systems to continuously renew themselves and to regulate this process in such a way that the integrity of their structure is maintained. It is a natural process which supports the quest for structure, process renewal and integrity.
 - Surrendering to life offers some wonderful realizations. We learn we’re capable of being in this dance, of working with whatever happens. We learn to trust ourselves and then others and, gradually, we learn that life itself can be trusted.
 - It is time to stop waiting for someone to save us. It is time to face the truth of our situation – that we’re all in this together, that we all have a voice – and figure out how to mobilize the hearts and minds of everyone in our workplaces and communities.
 - We each create our world by what we choose to notice, creating a world of distinction that makes sense to us. We then ‘see’ the world through the self we have created.
 - To make a system stronger, we need to make stronger relationships.
 - Aggression is inherently destructive of relationships. People and ideologies are pitted against each other, believing that in order to survive, they must destroy the opposition.
 - Thinking is the place where intelligent actions begin. We pause long enough to look more carefully at a situation, to see more of its character, to think about why it’s happening, to notice how it’s affecting us and others.
 - Our willingness to acknowledge that we only see half the picture creates the conditions that make us more attractive to others. The more sincerely we acknowledge our need for their different insights and perspectives, the more they will be magnetized to join us.
 - We know from science that nothing in the universe exists as an isolated or independent entity.
 - A leader these days needs to be a host – one who convenes diversity; who convenes all viewpoints in creative processes where our mutual intelligence can come forth.
 - I’m sad to report that in the past few years, ever since uncertainty became our insistent 21st century companion, leadership has taken a great leap backwards to the familiar territory of command and control.
 - I’ve wanted to see beyond the Western, mechanical view of the world and see what else might appear when the lens was changed.
 - I think a major act of leadership right now, call it a radical act, is to create the places and processes so people can actually learn together, using our experiences.
 - Independence is a political concept, not a biological concept.
 - Destroying is a necessary function in life. Everything has its season, and all things eventually lose their effectiveness and die.
 - We are, always, poets, exploring possibilities of meaning in a world which is also all the time exploring possibilities.
 - Hopelessness has surprised me with patience.
 - Circles create soothing space, where even reticent people can realize that their voice is welcome.
 - No longer in a relational universe, can we study anything as separate from ourselves. Our acts of observation are part of the process that brings forth the manifestation of what we are observing.
 - Successful organizations, including the Military, have learned that the higher the risk, the more necessary it is to engage everyone’s commitment and intelligence.
 - We experience problem-solving sessions as war zones, we view competing ideas as enemies, and we use problems as weapons to blame and defeat opposition forces. No wonder we can’t come up with real lasting solutions!
 - Disorder can play a critical role in giving birth to new, higher forms of order.
 - Let’s just keep asking ourselves this question: ‘Is what I’m about to do strengthening the web of connections, or is it weakening it?’
 - Power is the capacity to generate relationships.
 - All of us need better skills in listening, conversing, respecting one another’s uniqueness, because these are essential for strong relationships.
 - Many of us have created lives that give very little support for experimentation. We believe that answers already exist out there, independent of us. What if we invested more time and attention to our own experimentation? We could focus our efforts on discovering solutions that work uniquely for us.
 - When we can lay down our fear and anger and choose responses other than aggression, we create the conditions for bringing out the best in us humans.
 - I’ve found that I can only change how I act if I stay aware of my beliefs and assumptions. Thoughts always reveal themselves in behavior.
 - Life is creative. It makes it up as it goes along.
 - In the past, it was easier to believe in my own effectiveness. If I worked hard, with good colleagues and good ideas, we could make a difference. But now, I sincerely doubt that.
 - For example, I was discussing the use of email and how impersonal it can be, how people will now email someone across the room rather than go and talk to them. But I don’t think this is laziness, I think it is a conscious decision people are making to save time.
 - Most people associate command and control leadership with the military.
 - For me, this is a familiar image – people in the organization ready and willing to do good work, wanting to contribute their ideas, ready to take responsibility, and leaders holding them back, insisting that they wait for decisions or instructions.
 - We could focus our efforts on discovering solutions that work uniquely for us.
 - In virtually every organization, regardless of mission and function, people are frustrated by problems that seem unsolvable.
 - I think it is quite dangerous for an organisation to think they can predict where they are going to need leadership. It needs to be something that people are willing to assume if it feels relevant, given the context of any situation.
 - I believe that our very survival depends upon us becoming better systems thinkers.
 - Organizations are now confronted with two sources of change: the traditional type that is initiated and managed; and external changes over which no one has control.
 - In fact, Western culture has spent decades drawing lines and boxes around interconnected phenomena. We’ve chunked the world into pieces rather than explored its webby nature.
 - When leaders take back power, when they act as heroes and saviors, they end up exhausted, overwhelmed, and deeply stressed.
 - Listening moves us closer, it helps us become more whole, more healthy, more holy. Not listening creates fragmentation, and fragmentation is the root of all suffering.
 - There are many benefits to this process of listening. The first is that good listeners are created as people feel listened to. Listening is a reciprocal process – we become more attentive to others if they have attended to us.
 - These days, our senses are bombarded with aggression. We are constantly confronted with global images of unending, escalating war and violence.
 - A world based on machine images is a world filled with boundaries. In a machine, every piece knows its place.
 - I believe that the capacity that any organization needs is for leadership to appear anywhere it is needed, when it is needed.
 - Probably the most visible example of unintended consequences, is what happens every time humans try to change the natural ecology of a place.
 - We have created trouble for ourselves in organizations by confusing control with order.
 - In this present culture, we need to find the means to work and live together with less aggression if we are to resolve the serious problems that afflict and impede us.
 - Aggression is the most common behavior used by many organizations, a nearly invisible medium that influences all decisions and actions.
 - This is a world of process, not a world of things.
 - Space is the basic ingredient of the universe; there is more of it than anything else.
 - Passion mutates into procedures, into rules and roles. Instead of purpose, we focus on policies. Instead of being free to create, we impose constraints that squeeze the life out of us.
 - Who you are depends on who you meet.
 - We’ve taken disturbances and fluctuations and averaged them together to give us comfortable statistics. Our training has been to look for big numbers, important trends, major variances. Yet it is the slight variations – soft-spoken, even whispered at first – that we need to encourage.
 - When error holds so much power, play disappears. Creativity ceases.
 - We would do well to ponder the realization that love is the most potent source of power.
 - For eons, humans have struggled to find less destructive ways of living together.
 - For us, someone who is willing to step forward and help is much more courageous than someone who is merely fulfilling the role.
 - Circles create soothing space...
 - Too many problem-solving sessions become battlegrounds where decisions are made based on power rather than intelligence.

92 quotes