 - A charity dollar has only one life; a Social Business dollar can be invested over and over again.
 - This is not charity. This is business: business with a social objective, which is to help people get out of poverty.
 - Poverty is not created by poor people. It is produced by our failure to create institutions to support human capabilities.
 - The poor themselves can create a poverty-free world. All we have to do is to free them from the chains that we have put around them!
 - Human beings are much bigger than just making money.
 - Making money is a happiness. And that’s a great incentive. Making other people happy is a super-happiness.
 - Human creativity is unlimited. It is the capacity of humans to make things happen which didn’t happen before. Creativity provides the key to solving our social and economic problems.
 - My greatest challenge has been to change the mindset of people. Mindsets play strange tricks on us. We see things the way our minds have instructed our eyes to see.
 - If you think creating a world without any poverty is impossible, let’s do it. Because it is the right thing to do.
 - The moment you say microfinance everybody wants to help you.
 - The only place where poverty should be is in museums.
 - I’m encouraging young people to become social business entrepreneurs and contribute to the world, rather than just making money. Making money is no fun. Contributing to and changing the world is a lot more fun.
 - Making money is no fun. Contributing to and changing the world is a lot more fun.
 - Poverty does not belong in civilized human society. Its proper place is in a museum. That’s where it will be.
 - In my experience, poor people are the world’s greatest entrepreneurs. Every day, they must innovate in order to survive. They remain poor because they do not have the opportunities to turn their creativity into sustainable income.
 - Today, the concept of business is to make money. Making money is the name of the business.
 - I founded Grameen Bank to provide loans to those considered traditionally unbankable. Grameen Bank works with the poorest and often illiterate, providing uncollateralized micro-loans for tiny business enterprises by which they can lift themselves and their families out of poverty.
 - The developing world is full of entrepreneurs and visionaries, who with access to education, equity and credit would play a key role in developing the economic situations in their countries.
 - The oneness of human beings is the basic ethical thread that holds us together.
 - Credit is a human right that should be treated as a human right. If credit can be accepted as a human right, then all other human rights will be easier to establish.
 - We have a list of human rights – right to food, right to shelter, right to health, right to education, many such items which are considered and accepted as bill of rights. These are to be insured to people. So all nations, all societies try to do that.
 - Once poverty is gone, we’ll need to build museums to display its horrors to future generations. They’ll wonder why poverty continued so long in human society – how a few people could live in luxury while billions dwelt in misery, deprivation and despair.
 - Grameen Bank was formed as an institution owned by its borrower members, who are poor women. Through its unique decision-making process, Grameen Bank has given millions of women the means to emerge from the shadows in a male-dominated society and to make something of themselves.
 - Unprecedented technological capabilities combined with unlimited human creativity have given us tremendous power to take on intractable problems like poverty, unemployment, disease, and environmental degradation. Our challenge is to translate this extraordinary potential into meaningful change.
 - It’s very difficult to look at it in a kind of a free manner, what reality is. That was my first struggle, to see it as it is, rather than tainted by my own previous thoughts.
 - Poverty is the absence of all human rights. The frustrations, hostility and anger generated by abject poverty cannot sustain peace in any society.
 - Charity only perpetuates poverty by taking the initiative away from the poor.
 - Nothing is more valuable to people than health care, and by paying, they feel less like beggars and more like customers who can and should demand quality care.
 - It’s very difficult when you have learned something a certain way. Not only your mind absorbs it; your eyes also are trained to see in a certain way because eyes are only as good as you’ve been trained to see.
 - Changes are products of intensive efforts.
 - I made a list of people who needed just a little bit of money. And when the list was complete, there were 42 names. The total amount of money they needed was $27. I was shocked.
 - We got rid of colonialism, we got rid of slavery, and we got rid of apartheid everyone thought each one of them was impossible. Let’s take the next impossible, do it with joy and get it finished with and create a world free from poverty. Let us create the world of our choice.
 - What I learned in school, what I learned in the educational part of my life. Trying to acquire a kind of a bird’s eye view. You drive hard and see everything. And that’s called education because now you can see everything.
 - In the future the question will not be, “Are people credit-worthy”, but rather, “Are banks people-worthy?”
 - Like navigation markings in unknown waters, definitions of poverty need to be distinctive and unambiguous. A definition that is not precise is as bad as no definition at all.
 - Each individual person is very important. Each person has tremendous potential. She or he alone can influence the lives of others within the communities, nations, within and beyond her or his own time.
 - Engaging in social business is beneficial to a company because it leverages on business competencies to address social issues, involves one-time investment with sustainable results, and produces other positive effects such as employee motivation and improved organizational culture.
 - By simply capitalizing on core strengths and knowledge, companies and entrepreneurs can engage in an emerging business model that will enable them to create – and demonstrate – real, sustainable social impact in society.
 - There are cultural issues everywhere – in Bangladesh, Latin America, Africa, wherever you go. But somehow when we talk about cultural differences, we magnify those differences.
 - An individual poor person is an isolated island by himself and herself. IT can end that isolation overnight.
 - All people are entrepreneurs, but many don’t have the opportunity to find that out.
 - I believe that we can create a poverty-free world because poverty is not created by poor people. It has been created and sustained by the economic and social systems that we have designed for ourselves; the institutions and concepts that make up that system; the policies that we pursue.
 - Business money is limitless.
 - The fact that the poor are alive is clear proof of their ability.
 - What we need is to think strategically about development, analyzing a country’s potential role in its region and the world in search of opportunities for growth. Platforms like the Global Social Business Summit can facilitate the process on bringing about change.
 - I have always said that human beings are multidimensional beings. Their happiness comes from many sources, not, as our current economic framework assumes, just from making money.
 - Some people think that poor people are lazy. Actually, it takes a lot of work to survive when you are dirt-poor.
 - I have come to believe, deeply and firmly, that we can create a poverty free world if we want to. I came to this conclusion not as a product of a pious dream, but as a concrete result of experience gained in the work of the Grameen Bank.
 - What we are trying to do is to create a social business in Bangladesh, a joint venture to create restaurants for common people. Good, healthy food at affordable prices so that people don’t have to opt for food that is unhealthy and unhygienic.
 - Access to quality education has enabled me to reach far beyond the Bangladeshi village I grew up in.
 - They said, we have education, but what about jobs? So I started telling them, you should be taking a pledge, and the pledge should be: ‘I’m not a job seeker; I’m a job giver.’ Prepare yourself to be a job giver.
 - In a bird’s eye view you tend to survey everything and decide on a particular point, then you swoop down and pick it up. In a worms eye view you don’t have that advantage of looking at everything.
 - I should never seek a job in my life, my mission in life is to create jobs. I am not a job seeker, I am a job giver.
 - Young people should think in a different way – they should be job givers not job seeker.
 - To overcome poverty and the flaws of the economic crisis in our society, we need to envision our social life. We have to free our mind, imagine what has never happened before and write social fiction. We need to imagine things to make them happen. If you don’t imagine, it will never happen.
 - Human beings have enormous resilience.
 - If I could be useful to another human being, even for a day, that would be a great thing. It would be greater than all the big thoughts I could have at the university.
 - One day our grandchildren will go to museums to see what poverty was like.
 - Each of us has much more hidden inside us than we have had a chance to explore. Unless we create an environment that enables us to discover the limits of our potential, we will never know what we have inside of us.
 - The profit orientation is only one orientation of a person. The same people who are interested in profit-making are also selfless. I am not saying that capitalist theory is wrong. I am saying that it has not been interpreted and practiced fully.
 - I will not spend the money for myself. I will rather spend it in special business on a no-profit-no-loss policy. We will also establish an eye hospital where even beggars will be given treatment at the cost of Taka 10-20.
 - When you get a mobile phone it is almost like having a card to get you out of poverty in a couple of years.
 - I’m on the faculty. I teach. And it’s not easy for a poor person to enter the campus to track down the professor in the campus in a Bangladesh situation. They all will be stopped at the gate. You have no business in the university!
 - Truly affordable but high-quality health care tools and services are the only means by which quality health care can be provided to all.
 - I am proposing to create another kind of business, based on “selflessness” that is in all of us. I am calling it social business.
 - Peace should be understood in a human way – in a broad social, political and economic way. Peace is threatened by unjust economic, social and political order, absence of democracy, environmental degradation and absence of human rights.
 - We have to get out of this mindset that the rich will do the business and the poor will have the charity.
 - Capitalism has been interpreted as an exclusively profit-centric human engagement. Some have been saying to bring people and planet into the picture. This can be a good change, but it is still not fully operationalized. Are you putting people, planet and profit at the same level?
 - The current financial crisis makes it very clears that the system that we have isn’t really working, and this is the right time for us to undo things and build them in a new way.
 - Long live Grameen Bank. Let the power of poor women prevail.
 - Microcredit has shown how you can reach out to people that conventional banking cannot. It has demonstrated that it’s a doable proposition.
 - In this world of plenty, a tiny baby, who does not yet understand the mystery of the world, is allowed to cry and cry and finally fall asleep without the milk she needs to survive.
 - We prepare our students for jobs and careers, but we don’t teach them to think as individuals about what kind of world they would create.
 - The challenge I set before anyone who condemns private-sector business is this: If you are a socially conscious person, why don’t you run your business in a way that will help achieve social objectives?
 - So i say, change the base! If you change the base, anybody will be as tall as anybody else! My belief is poverty is not caused by poor ppl. Poverty is caused by the system. Poverty is caused by the policies that we pursue.
 - I said peace is sometimes narrowly interpreted; it’s the absence of conflict between nations or something. But peace is more inherent, more basic to human life, human beings, what we feel about each other, what we feel about life around us and what we see in our future.
 - Even today we don’t pay serious attention to the issue of poverty, because the powerful remain relatively untouched by it. Most people distance themselves from the issue by saying that if the poor worked harder, they wouldn’t be poor.
 - Money begets money. If you don’t have that, you wait around to be hired by somebody at the mercy of others. If you have that money in your hand, you desperately try to make the best use of it and move ahead. And that’s generating income for yourself.
 - A university should not be an island where academics attain higher and higher levels of knowledge without sharing any of this knowledge with its neighbours.
 - But we have created a society that does not allow opportunities for those people to take care of themselves because we have denied them those opportunities.
 - Policies are also to blame: the only thing that the governments and people can come up with to give to the poor people is charity. Poor people get hand outs from the state. But this is not a solution to poverty.
 - The process of breaking down fear was always my greatest challenge and it was made easier by the careful work and gentle voices of my female workers.
 - We will make yogurt with all kinds of nutritious elements. We want to provide nutrition to the poor and children.
 - I had no idea that I would ever get involved with something like lending money to poor people, given the circumstances in which I was working in Bangladesh.
 - If the basic structure of Grameen is changed, the worry is that the poor women who are the rightful owners of the bank will be disenfranchised.
 - Credit markets were originally created to serve human needs; to provide businesses and individuals with capital to start or expand businesses or fulfill other financial needs.
 - Soon we saw that money going to women brought much more benefit to the family than money going to the men. So we changed our policy and gave a high priority to women. As a result, now 96% of our four million borrowers in Grameen Bank are women.
 - I went to the bank and proposed that they lend money to the poor people. The bankers almost fell over.
 - Today, if you look at financial systems around the globe, more than half the population of the world – out of six billion people, more than three billion – do not qualify to take out a loan from a bank. This is a shame.
 - Here we were talking about economic development, about investing billions of dollars in various programs, and I could see it wasn’t billions of dollars people needed right away.
 - We can remove poverty from the surface of the earth only if we can redesign our institutions – like the banking institutions, and other institutions; if we redesign our policies, if we look back on our concepts, so that we have a different idea of poor people.
 - The Grameen Bank Ordinance with amendments up to 2008 is a beautiful legal structure for the fulfillment of the ideals and objectives of the bank. Any change in this structure will be devastating for the bank.
 - They explained to me that the bank cannot lend money to poor people because these people are not creditworthy.
 - Health care can be made more affordable for the poor without requiring major new scientific developments, just the smart application of current technologies. We have seen a $25 incubator and diagnostic instruments that are built tough, cheap, and reusable for the developing world.
 - The crisis is the price for the capitalist system.
 - When you say vision you have a track that this is what I would like to say.
 - I wanted to give money to people like this woman so that they would be free from the moneylenders to sell their product at the price which the markets gave them – which was much higher than what the trader was giving them.
 - We have done some of these in Bangladesh. Whenever I see a problem, I immediately go and create a company. That’s what I did all my life.
 - I believe that “government”, as we know it today, should pull out of most things except for law enforcement and justice, national defense and foreign policy, and let the private sector, a “Grameenized private sector”, a social-consciousness-driven private sector, take over their other functions.
 - I was an economist now turning into a human being – as if these are two different things. I don’t know but I did that and then I had no vision.
 - I’m finding that knocking at their mindsets is hard work. A simple knock will not make it crawl. I was trying to push it. I was trying to find a bird’s eye view where I could find a big solution. So this is what I was trying.
 - If we want to help poor people out, one way to do that is to help them explore and use their own capability. Human being is full of capacity full of capability, is a wonderful creation. But many people never get a chance to explore that, never, no that she nor he has that.
 - I had only immediate things today, only today, not tomorrow. I don’t know what will happen tomorrow. Today I can see myself like crystal.
 - If we are looking for one single action which will enable the poor to overcome their poverty, I would focus on credit.
 - Poverty is unnecessary.
 - I was teaching in one of the universities while the country was suffering from a severe famine. People were dying of hunger, and I felt very helpless. As an economist, I had no tool in my tool box to fix that kind of situation.
 - My experience working in the Grameen Bank has given me faith; an unshakable faith in the creativity of human beings. It leads me to believe that humans are not born to suffer the misery of hunger and poverty. They suffer now as they did in the past because we turn our heads away from this issue.
 - Poor people always pay back their loans. It’s us, the creators of institutions and rules, who keep creating trouble for them.
 - People need such a small amount of money to deal with their own daily life. Because wherever I went to school they taught me about millions of dollars. I dealt with billions of dollars in national plans and investment plans and so on. Not this tiny money, $27 for 42 people.
 - I think, social business is the most logical thing to do. If we had done that, we could reduce all the problems we have.
 - Civilization has given us enormous successes: going to the moon, technology. But then this is the civilisation that took us to debt, environmental crisis, every single crisis. We need a civilization where we say goodbye to these things.
 - I avoid grandiose plans. I start with a small piece that I can do. I go to the root of the problem and then work around it. It’s building brick by brick.

112 quotes