 - If you want to become successful, seek to become a person of value.
 - Hard work and diligence are essential to success, but they require an internal motivation. That internal motivation is Vision.
 - When you believe in your dream and your vision, then it begins to attract its own resources. No one was born to be a failure.
 - The greatest tragedy in life is not death, but a life without a purpose.
 - Leadership is the capacity to influence others through inspiration motivated by passion, generated by vision, produced by a conviction, ignited by a purpose.
 - Don’t be pushed by your problems, be led by your dreams. Govern your life by priorities not your pressures.
 - Your work is not your job. Your job is what they pay you to do; your work is what you were born to do.
 - The greatest discovery in life is self-discovery. Until you find yourself you will always be someone else. Become yourself.
 - Every person is born with a seed of greatness.
 - The graveyard is the richest place on the surface of the earth because there you will see the books that were not published, ideas that were not harnessed, songs that were not sung, and drama pieces that were never acted.
 - Circumstances and crises are God’s tools to move you into your purpose and the maximizing of your potential.
 - The greatest enemy of progress is your last success, you could become so proud of what you’ve already accomplished that you stop moving ahead to what you can still accomplish.
 - The greatness of a man is measured by the way he treats the little man. Compassion for the weak is a sign of greatness.
 - The value of life is not in its duration, but in its donation. You are not important because of how long you live, you are important because of how effective you live. And most people are concerned about growing old rather than being effective.
 - The value of life is not in its duration, but in its donation.
 - If your vision dies with you, you failed.
 - When purpose is not known, abuse is inevitable.
 - Leadership success is measured by the success of your successor.
 - Every human has a seed of greatness buried in a gift needed by the world.
 - A man leads with his mind while a woman leads with her heart.
 - Let me define prayer for you in this show. Prayer is man giving God permission or license to interfere in earth’s affairs. In other words, prayer is earthly license for heavenly interference.
 - Your future is not ahead of you, it’s trapped within you.
 - Your Destiny is chosen by God, Your future is certain, whether you arrive there is up to you.
 - Success in the present is only achieved when you put your focus where you want your future.
 - Marriage is a school of learning.
 - External circumstances will not change until internal belief systems change.
 - The greatest failure in life is being successful in the wrong assignment.
 - One of the greatest enemies to vision is sight!
 - Most people die at age 25 and are buried at age 65.
 - You are not free until your past has no effect on your future.
 - I encourage people at this time, do not put your faith in any preacher, in any human system, but put your faith and trust in the Living God.
 - Purpose gives birth to hope and instills the passion to act.
 - Rulership is in our genes, dominion is in our makeup. We were designed to rule the earth.
 - You become a leader when you decide to be an original and not a copy.
 - You came to earth to answer a question God knew would be asked. You are the solution to a problem in your generation.
 - A leader can transform an army of frightened people into fearless people.
 - My greatest fear is that the spirit of religion is lurking in so many churches today. Instead of men and women of God preaching about and applying Kingdom principles to everyday living, they have given the spirit of religion the power to cloud the path of others.
 - Whatever you compromise to gain, you will lose.
 - The secret to greatness is in serving everyone else.
 - Solid character will reflect itself in consistent behavior, while poor character will seek to hide behind deceptive words and actions.
 - You must decide if you are going to rob the world or bless it with the rich, valuable, potent, untapped resources locked away within you.
 - We are not to be so concerned about who approves or disapproves of us, but remember that God’s approval is what counts. Those whom God approves are approved indeed.
 - We live our lives based on who we think we are.
 - It is the same way with dating. The time you are most prepared for dating is when you don’t need anyone to complete you, fulfill you, or instill in you a sense of worth or purpose.
 - I went from one state of life to another state of life by obeying, understanding, and applying the principles that are laid down in the Bible.
 - Love in marriage is more than just a feeling or an emotion; it is a choice.
 - The poorest man in the world is a man without a dream.
 - We need to put people in positions of authority in government, business, law, medicine, media, sports and entertainment who are filled with the laws of God so that we can bring those laws into effect.
 - No matter how many people celebrate your gifts, don’t ever think that you are more important to them than your gift is to them. This is why many people fail: They fail because they think that people came to follow them.
 - Leadership is birthed out of anger!
 - Your faith is only as strong as the test it survives.
 - God never demands anything that He does not provide for. Whatever God commands us to do, He equips us to do.
 - You can never change what you don’t confront and transform what you avoid.
 - You will never change anything that you are willing to tolerate.
 - True success is not a project but a journey.
 - A woman may be beautiful but have poor character. A man may be a business genius, making money left and right, but lack common courtesy, sensitivity, and compassion.
 - Don’t be a pigeon if you were born to be an eagle. Experience God’s altitude for your life.
 - Humility is simply believing and accepting what God says about us, and God says that we are anything but worthless.
 - God may not explain Himself, but He will reveal Himself.
 - True leadership is an attitude that naturally inspires and motivates others, and it comes from an internalized discovery about yourself.
 - You need to treat your finances as a resource God has provided to fulfill your vision, not a tool to fill your life with luxuries.
 - God’s will and desire – His pleasure – is that we love Him. We cannot please God unless we love Him. We cannot love Him unless we know Him, and we cannot know Him unless we have faith in Him.
 - In life, purpose is defined by the thing that makes you angry. Martin Luther was angry; Mandela was angry; Mahatma Gandhi was angry; Mother Teresa was angry. If you are not angry, you do not have a ministry yet.
 - True success is what you have done compared to what you could have done.
 - Few people who marry plan for their marriages to fail, but neither do they specifically plan for success.
 - Though every human being on the planet has an inclination for leadership, most of us do not have the courage to cultivate it.
 - Failure is predictable if you break laws, success is predictable if you obey laws. I discovered and learned that truth when I was 14 years old. Not everyone discovers that. Some people take a lifetime to learn that.
 - One of the greatest tragedies in life is to watch potential die untapped.
 - A promise is a commitment to do something later, and a vow is a binding commitment to begin doing something now and to continue to do it for the duration of the vow. Some vows, or contracts, are for life; others are for limited periods of time.
 - Learning comes from education, while knowing comes from revelation. Learning is cognitive, while knowing is spiritual.
 - Every human being was born with an inherent gift, and that gift is their gift to humanity; they are supposed to serve humanity in the area of their gifting.
 - True leaders respect and honor authority but are comfortable in its presence.
 - Failure is not the absence of success. Failure is the neglect of trying.
 - Democracy without God is mans worship and elevation of himself and his own intelligence or humanism, where man becomes his own measure for morality, judgment, and justice.
 - The leadership spirit possess a natural love for all human beings.
 - Don’t ever become so preoccupied by who you want to be that you forget to be who you are.
 - True leaders are born when you find something to die for.
 - Marriage will not solve “aloneness.”
 - There is nothing more powerful as attitude.
 - The reason why principles are so important is because principles make life predictable.
 - My concern is that the leaders who are presently responsible for guiding the masses and teaching the people in the church environment, as well as business and corporate, reconnect themselves to God’s original idea and that is that God created man to have dominion over the earth.
 - No matter how good or bad we may feel, no matter how up or down we may be, Christ loves us, accepts us, and thinks the world of us.
 - When you discover your gift and authority, that gift attracts people. When people come to you, they are not really coming to you for you but for the gift and the vision that you are serving the humanity of your generation with.
 - Once a man and woman have married, the only thing they should receive from their parents is advice and counsel, and then only when they ask for it. Parents should not offer opinions or advice without being asked.
 - Man is like an onion. His potential is exposed one layer at a time until all he is, is known by all.
 - Every human being was created to dominate and lead in an area of gifting.
 - I go to goth clubs dressed as a frat guy so I can stand around and look terribly uncomfortable. At frat parties I do the same thing, but the other way around.
 - Your existence is evidence that this generation needs something that your life contains.
 - Young people all over the world are very frustrated. They are very disillusioned. Many of them are turning their back on religion. They are walking away from the faith of their parents, and most of this is because religion has failed them.
 - The third basic need of a male in a relationship is an attractive woman; for a woman, honesty and openness.
 - Leadership is not about control but service. Its not about power but empowerment.
 - Loving money at the expense of others is an abuse of power to get wealth.
 - A wedding is and event, but marriage is a life.
 - If you keep your perspective correct and understand that people are coming to you because your gift makes room for you in the world, then you do not need to wonder or worry about having to misplace your importance as a person.
 - When trying to communicate with each other, a husband and wife should be careful to make sure their voices and faces agree with their words.
 - We live our thoughts and manifest them in our attitudes toward ourselves and others. We cannot live beyond our thoughts and convictions.
 - There is no limit to what the Lord can do in and with and through any individual or any married couple who surrender themselves and their resources completely to His will and His way.
 - A principle is a truth that is established by God that can never be changed.
 - Noticing when the stoplights are in sync, or calculating the length of your strides between floor tiles – normal people notice that kind of stuff, but a certain kind of person will do some calculations.
 - You are capable of much more than you are presently thinking, imagining, doing or being.
 - The first and most important component in nation building is LAW. Law is the source of national Cohesion.
 - The self-discovery of your inherent leadership potential and an understanding of who you are and what you are meant to be are the keys to fulfilling your purpose from existence as a leader.
 - I’m washed, I’m forgiven, I’m whole, and I’m healed. I’m cleansed and I’m glory bound. I am only a sojourner on the earth.
 - We need to stop focusing on people leaving earth and focus on, like Jesus said, the Kingdom of God is the yeast. Yeast invades dough.
 - We were placed on earth to fulfil a purpose, and that purpose is what gives meaning to our lives, you were sent to the world to make an impact and make a difference.
 - No amount of training in leadership skills, courses in management methods, power titles, promotions, or associations can substitute for the right attitudes.
 - Desire is craving enough to sacrifice for.
 - We need to define what culture is. Every human being lives within a culture, and culture means “To grow in.” It means to literally fall, and this is exactly what I believe is happening all around us right now.
 - Everything in life is built on principles – plants, seas, birds, all of the natural elements of nature, they all follow and obey certain basic fundamental principles.
 - True Leaders do not manipulate others they INSPIRE them.
 - If we are focusing on our needs, the relationship is in trouble.
 - You must keep a careful, correct perspective on life that this is not about me but about me serving my gift to the world.
 - Being open to correction means making ourselves vulnerable, and many people are not willing to do that.
 - I believe that if you are talking about economic stress, the systems of the world are very fragile, and if we put our hope and trust in the systems that men have created, they will guarantee failure.
 - Find your domain and serve it to the world.
 - We need to challenge our own theology, challenge the curriculum of our Bible schools and our seminaries, and ask simple questions. Are we teaching and producing ministers who have the right message?
 - Principles are laws that are established by the creator or the manufacturer by which a product functions. If you violate those laws, then you produce malfunction, which is what we call failure. If you obey those laws and align yourself with those laws, then you are guaranteed success.
 - You are not saved for the sole purpose of going to heaven; you are saved to finish your assignment on earth.
 - I am convinced that God Himself is tampering with the economic system of the world to reduce us back to Him.
 - You are meant to be going somewhere, to be headed to a destination. The poorest person in the world is a person without a dream.
 - Friendship is not a gift, but is the result of hard work.
 - Leadership does not mean being bossy, always telling others what to do. No, leadership means going ahead, not putting others in the front. Good leaders lead by example, not by decree.
 - Keep your head and your heart going in the right direction, and you will not have to worry about your feet.
 - We manifest character when self-sacrifice for the sake of our principles becomes more important than compromise for the sake of popularity.
 - Marriage is two imperfect people committing themselves to a perfect institution, by making perfect vows from imperfect lips before a perfect God.
 - The past is dead except for the life you give it.
 - For a woman, language spoken is an expression of what she is feeling. For a man, language spoken is an expression of what he is thinking. A woman says what is on her heart while a man says what is on his mind.
 - Learn to recognize and combat the enemies of potential.
 - Submission is the willingness to give up our right to ourselves, to freely surrender our insistence on having our own way all the time.
 - Great leaders have no need for reputation. Reputation is what you are in public. Character is who you are in private.
 - The Bible is really not a religious book but a divine manual written by the manufacturer of humanity by which the product man is supposed to live. If we learn those principles and obey them, then we find that the process of failure to success becomes more inevitability than experiment.
 - Anyone who develops his gifts and talents will become a commodity.
 - Every conscientious husband and wife should measure their marriage by the unchanging standard of the principles found in God’s Word.
 - True Leadership is the authority given by the trust of the followers to use power for the benefit of all.
 - God did not create woman from man’s head, that he should command her, nor from his feet, that she should be his slave, but rather from his side, that she should be near his heart.
 - If you don’t attempt things, you don’t attract God.
 - Leadership will either lead you into a ditch or lead you into purpose. We need our leaders, especially those who are teaching our young people, to have the right message.
 - Attitude creates your world and designs your destiny.
 - Communication is the ability to ensure that people understand not only what you say but also what you mean. It is also the ability to listen to and understand others. Developing both of these aspects of communication takes a lot of time, patience, and hard work.
 - The greatest challenge of Leadership maintaining personal conviction in a globalized world.
 - Some vows, or contracts, are for life; others are for limited periods of time.
 - Divine Law is not subject nor affected by the majority vote of humanity.
 - A person’s readiness to date is largely a matter of maturity and environment.
 - Faithfulness to your husband means sticking up for him, always building him up and never tearing him down.
 - The worst mistake a leader can make is to mentor no one, choose no successor and leave no legacy.
 - The shortest distance to leadership is service.
 - The highest manifestation of true leadership is to identify one’s replacement and to begin mentoring him or her.
 - If we get into the habit of thinking of ourselves as always owing a debt of love to our spouses, we will be less inclined to take offense when they say or do something that we do not like.
 - Culture is a product of law. And laws create norms for society. This is why anyone who wants to change the culture of a country must try to change the norms of the country.
 - Leadership is inherent in our nature and is fundamental to our origins, our human makeup -and our destiny.
 - When certain parts of our bodies are touched, certain enzymes and chemicals that trigger sexual desire are released into our system. The more our bodies are stimulated, the more chemicals are released and the greater our sexual desire grows until it becomes a virtually unstoppable flood.
 - Headship is not rulership; it is leadership.
 - If you have hope for the future you have true riches; no matter how much you have in your account.
 - When you get before great people you don’t talk a lot, you ask questions.
 - God designed the world in such a way that everything functions on principles. Principles are eternal laws established and inherent in creation that make creation function.
 - Success is the potential destiny of all created things.
 - If you cling to an experience that cannot accommodate change, this can cause you to become a victim of that change. He who worships the past will remain there.
 - No one came to earth empty; everybody came with a contribution to make to their generation. Most of them never find that gift and even more die never releasing it.
 - You are not important because of how long you live, you are important because of how effective you live.
 - Purpose is when you know and understand what you were born to accomplish. Vision is when you see it in your mind and begin to imagine it.
 - A woman says what is on her heart while a man says what is on his mind.
 - God had no problem with the man’s separateness, his uniqueness, or his wholeness.
 - We each were endowed at birth with a unique gift, something we were born to do or become that no one else can achieve the way we can. God’s purpose is that we bear abundant fruit and release the blessings of our gift and potential to the world.
 - We are a sum total of what we have learned from all who have taught us, both great and small.
 - We will never obtain God’s kind of marriage simply by going along with the crowd, doing what everybody else does. We have to dig deep into the heart of God to discover His principles.
 - It’s safer to do nothing and know why you doing it, than to do something and don’t know why you do it.
 - Great leadership is not attained by pursuing greatness but by persevering through great tests.
 - You came into this world pregnant with unlimited potential.
 - We are the products of a highly intelligent and creative supreme being.
 - When a person gets to know his Creator, and finally comes to know himself, then his leadership is born.
 - Your value in life is determined by the problems you solve through your gift.
 - The nature of the leadership spirit is the inherent desire of all mankind to control and regulate both environment and circumstance.
 - We were not designed to be dominated.
 - You have to choose to manifest your leadership nature.
 - Nothing is more difficult than trying to correct history.
 - I discovered that success has very little to do with education or race or disposition; it has more to do with principles and following those principles.
 - The world is so average, it doesn’t take much to be a genius, just do a little extra.
 - The leadership spirit comes with a spirit of leadership.
 - Each of us was created to rule, govern, control, master, manage, and lead our environments. You are in essence a leader, no matter who you are.
 - No matter who you are, you have the nature and capacity for leadership.
 - We need people in the areas that create laws and policies who are filled with the Kingdom so that those laws can become the fabric of our social development.
 - You do not have to marry in order not to be alone- all you need not to be alone is to have some other humans to be your companions and close friends.
 - Don’t ever make the mistake of telling God that you have nothing to offer. That simply is not true. God does not create any junk.
 - Leaders think differently about themselves, and this distinguishes them from followers.
 - The husband provides direction; the wife, maintenance.
 - Lasting change can occur only when it takes in the spirit of the mind.
 - All societies establish laws that become norms. Those norms create the environment that incubates society. So, when you implement the laws of God in society, they produce a culture of heaven.
 - The first word Jesus used in His earthly ministry was repent. Repent means to change the way you’ve been conditioned to think, and I believe that is the only way we are going to see the impact of the original concepts and idea of God.
 - Praise must be learned in private before it is exhibited in public.
 - Vision is a conception that is inspired by God in the hearts of Human.
 - At age 14, my belief systems began to change about myself, about God, about humans, about values, and about moral standards. I also began to align myself with the principles that are laid down by the Creator in the book called the Bible.
 - For everything that God desires to do in the earth, He enters into partnership with those to whom He has already given dominion.
 - Leadership potential exists in everybody. What I think we have missed is that we have somehow relegated leadership only to a special, talented few people.
 - I can guarantee people, then, that if they learn, discover, understand, explore, and apply the same principles that I learned, that success is predictable.
 - Many people are leaders trapped in a follower’s body.
 - You are designed by God not to blend in, but to stand out.
 - Most of us are not leaders today because, in our hearts we don’t believe that is who we are.

197 quotes