 - The key to wisdom is this – constant and frequent questioning, for by doubting we are led to question and by questioning we arrive at the truth.
 - Be precise in the use of words and expect precision from others.
 - By doubting we are led to enquire, and by enquiry we perceive the truth.
 - Nothing can be believed unless it is first understood; and that for any one to preach to others that which either he has not understood nor they have understood is absurd.
 - Logic has made me hated in the world.
 - The first key to wisdom is assiduous and frequent questioning.
 - Against the disease of writing one must take special precautions, since it is a dangerous and contagious disease.
 - Language is generated by the intellect and generates the intellect.
 - I preferred the weapons of dialectic to all the other teachings of philosophy, and armed with these, I chose the conflicts of disputation rather than the trophies of war.
 - The Son of God took our nature, and in it took upon himself to teach us by both word and example even to the point of death, thus binding us to himself through love.
 - We call an intention good which is right in itself, but the action is good, not because it contains within it some good, but because it issues from a good intention.
 - Under the pretext of study we spent our hours in the happiness of love, and learning held out to us the secret opportunities that our passion craved. Our speech was more of love than of the books which lay open before us; our kisses far outnumbered our reasoned words.
 - The men who abandon themselves to the passions of this miserable life, are compared in Scripture to beasts.

13 quotes