 - As long as movies are depressing, life isn’t.
 - Love is the best, most insidious, most effective instrument of social repression.
 - Everyone must decide for himself whether it is better to have a brief but more intensely felt existence or to live a long and ordinary life.
 - So certainly, if we can tell evil stories to make people sick, we can also tell good myths that make them well.
 - In the last analysis, terrorism is an idea generated by capitalism to justify better defense measures to safeguard capitalism.
 - I detest the idea that love between two persons can lead to salvation. All my life I have fought against this oppressive type of relationship. Instead, I believe in searching for a kind of love that somehow involves all of humanity.
 - People are terrible. They can bear anything. Anything! People are hard and brutal. And everyone is disposable. Everyone! That’s the lesson.
 - The best thing I can think of would be to create a union between something as beautiful and powerful and wonderful as Hollywood films and a criticism of the status quo. That’s my dream, to make such a German film.
 - The more real things get, the more like myths they become. There have always been myths, but the myths of earlier times were, Im convinced, bad ones, because they made people sick. So certainly, if we can tell evil stories to make people sick, we can also tell good myths that make them well.
 - I hope to build a house with my films. Some of them are the cellar, some are the walls, and some are the windows. But I hope in time there will be a house.
 - I’d like to be for cinema what Shakespeare was for theatre, Marx for politics and Freud for psychology: someone after whom nothing is as it used to be.
 - Since I’m not a second Marx or Freud who can offer people alternatives, I have to let them keep their own wrong feelings. And I don’t believe that melodramatic feelings are laughable-they should be taken absolutely seriously.
 - Better a street-sweeper in Mexico than a filmmaker in Germany!
 - The more real things get, the more like myths they become.
 - Yes, actually ever since I saw his films and tried to write about them, Sirk’s been in everything I’ve done. Not Sirk himself, but what I’ve learned from his work.
 - For all of us it’s the things that won’t work that keep our interest.

16 quotes