 - Receive the children in reverence, educate them in love, and send them forth in freedom.
 - Love starts when we push aside our ego and make room for someone else.
 - For every human illness, somewhere in the world there exists a plant which is the cure.
 - To truly know the world, look deeply within your own being; to truly know yourself, take real interest in the world.
 - Where is the book in which the teacher can read about what teaching is? The children themselves are this book. We should not learn to teach out of any book other than the one lying open before us and consisting of the children themselves.
 - You will not be good teachers if you focus only on what you do and not upon who you are.
 - Seek the truly practical life, but seek it in such a way that it does not blind you to the spirit working in it. Seek the spirit, but seek it not out of spiritual greed, but so that you may apply it in the genuinely practical life.
 - A healthy social life is found only, when in the mirror of each soul the whole community finds its reflection, and when in the whole community the virtue of each one is living.
 - It is important that we discover an educational method where people learn to learn and go on learning their whole lives.
 - Anthroposophy does not want to impart knowledge. It seeks to awaken life.
 - When the human being hears music, he has a sense of wellbeing, because these tones harmonize with what he has experienced in the world of his spiritual home.
 - To be free is to be capable of thinking one’s own thoughts – not the thoughts merely of the body, or of society, but thoughts generated by one’s deepest, most original, most essential and spiritual self, one’s individuality.
 - Our highest endeavor must be to develop free human beings who are able of themselves to impart purpose and direction to their lives. The need for imagination, a sense of truth, and a feeling of responsibility – these three forces are the very nerve of education.
 - A real medicine can only exist when it penetrates into a knowledge which embraces the human being in respect to body, soul and spirit.
 - If a child has been able in his play to give up his whole loving being to the world around him, he will be able, in the serious tasks of later life, to devote himself with confidence and power to the service of the world.
 - The heart of the Waldorf method is that education is an art-it must speak to the child’s experience. To educate the whole child, his heart and his will must be reached, as well as the mind.
 - The stars once spoke to man. It is world destiny that they are silent now, but in their silence there grows and ripens what man speaks to the stars!
 - What is necessary to keep providing good care to nature has completely fallen into ignorance during the materialism era.
 - Music is the expression of the will of nature while all other arts are expressions of the idea of nature.
 - Most naughtiness arises because the children are bored and lack a relationship with the teacher.
 - In the future no human being is to find peace in the enjoyment of happiness if others beside him are unhappy.
 - Every human being should show the greatest interest in beekeeping because our lives depend upon it.
 - Matter is never without Spirit. Spirit is never without Matter.
 - May my soul bloom in love for all existence.
 - The science of the future will be based on sympathetic vibrations.
 - When we feel an obligation to test the things we say and to find the boundaries within which what we say has validity, then we are contributing to a real inner consolidation of our human feeling for existence.
 - Where the realm of freedom of thought and action begin, the determination of individuals according to generic laws ends.
 - Wherever love and compassion are active in life, we can perceive the magic breath of the spirit blowing through the sense world.
 - The student of mathematics must get rid of all arbitrary thinking and follow purely the demands of thought. In thinking in this way, the laws of the spiritual world flow into him. This regulated thinking leads to the most spiritual truths.
 - Colour is the soul of Nature and of the entire cosmos...
 - Reverence awakens in the soul a sympathetic power through which we attract qualities in the beings around us, which would otherwise remain concealed.
 - Nothing is better for the human being than to add the right amount of honey to his food.
 - The smallest thing in its rightful place can lead to the highest goals.
 - Without common sense, all thine efforts are in vain.
 - The time has come to realize that supersensible knowledge has now to arise from the materialistic grave.
 - In so far as we think, we are the all-one being that pervades everything.
 - The outer world, with all its phenomena, is filled with divine splendour, but we must have experienced the divine within ourselves, before we can discover it in our environment.
 - Reverence, enthusiasm, and a sense of guardianship, these three are actually the panacea, the magical remedy, in the soul of the educator and teacher.
 - Our egoism gains nothing from acts of love, but the world gains all the more. Esotericism tells us that love is to the world what the Sun is for outer life. No soul could thrive if love departed from the world. Love is the “moral” Sun of the world.
 - When human beings meet together seeking the spirit with unity of purpose then they will also find their way to each other...
 - Knowledge of life in the astral world leads us to a conclusion of fundamental importance, namely that the physical world is the product of the astral world.
 - Anthroposophy is a path of knowledge, to guide the Spiritual in the human being to the Spiritual in the universe.
 - Everyday something must be achieved inwardly.
 - Anthroposophie is not a religion but a tool for understanding of religions.
 - Not that which is inspires the creation, but that which may be; not the actual, but the possible.
 - Anthroposophy is not a game, nor just a theory; it is a task that must be faced for the sake of human evolution.
 - When you try to do one step forward to attain knowledge about the hidden truths, then do the same time three steps forward to perfect your character.
 - There will be as much deceit and criminality in the world as there is lack of art.
 - For every human illness, somewhere in the world there exists a plant which is the cure. I believe that there is a healing potential locked inside plants which is integral with their evolution, just as it is part of human evolution to learn to tap this wonderful gift of Nature.
 - For what lies inside the human being is the whole spiritual cosmos in condensed form. In our inner organism we have an image of the entire cosmos.
 - Each one of us has it in themselves to be a free spirit, just as every rose bud has in it a rose.
 - All of nature begins to whisper its secrets to us through its sounds. Sounds that were previously incomprehensible to our soul now become the meaningful language of nature.
 - We find the instrument for the Knowledge of God in ourselves But we find God everywhere.
 - I look at the bird in the cage and see the air, not only the air that is around the bird when it flies, but I see and feel the formative tendency of air in its form. When I do all this, then what lives in the forms becomes enlivened and spiritualized for me.
 - Intuition is the conscious experience – in pure spirit – of a purely spiritual content.
 - Man is effective in the world not only through what he does, but above all through what he is.
 - To understand the nature of love – that is to be a true Christian.
 - Goethe’s thinking was not rigid with inflexible contours; it was a thinking in which the concepts continually metamorphose.
 - For every one step that you take in the pursuit of higher knowledge, take three steps in the perfection of your own character.
 - Geometry is knowledge that appears to be produced by human beings, yet whose meaning is totally independent of them.
 - For every step in spiritual perception, three steps are to be taken in moral development.
 - It is the death of present art when it returns again and again to the model. Use of the model is only an intermediate stage in artistic development. Create out of a living spirituality to overcome everything naturalistic.
 - These fourteen phases from full moon to new also have their result, and for the Egyptian consciousness this result was achieved through Isis. These fourteen phases are ruled by Isis.
 - Live through deeds of love, and let others live with tolerance for their unique intentions.
 - That which secures life from exhaustion lies in the unseen world, deep at the roots of things.
 - If we do not believe within ourselves this deeply rooted feeling that there is something higher than ourselves, we shall never find the strength to evolve into something higher.
 - Man is not a being who stands still, he is a being in the process of becoming. The more he enables himself to become, the more he fulfills his true mission.
 - Our task is to harvest from the mortal world fruits for the immortal.
 - Sounds are the echo of the “Harmony of the Spheres” which man took into himself when he came down from the divine-spiritual world into the physical world.
 - Where God’s presence is no longer a tenable proposition and where his absence is no longer a felt, indeed overwhelming weight, certain dimensions of thought and creativity are no longer attainable.
 - We create the possibility for a better human form in our next life if during our jamaloca existence after death, when we still have an astral body, we can have memories connected with music.
 - In very ancient times of human evolution upon earth, humanity’s revelation in word and sound was not differentiated in song and speech, but they were one.
 - In order to approach a creation as sublime as the Bhagavad-Gita with full understanding it is necessary to attune our soul to it.
 - If humanity is to live in the future in a socially right way, humanity must educate its children in a socially right way.
 - The history of our spiritual life is a continuing search for the unity between ourselves and the world.
 - Because of their very nature, science and logical thinking can never decide what is possible or impossible. Their only function is to explain what has been ascertained by experience and observation.
 - Beauty is not the divine in a cloak of physical reality; no, it is physical reality in a cloak that is divine. The artist does not bring the divine on to the earth by letting it flow into the world; he raises the world into the sphere of the divine.
 - If there is something more powerful than destiny, this must be the human being who bears destiny unshaken.
 - When the human being sings he lends expression to the great wise ways in which the world was made.
 - Grateful for his mistakes, man should be the gods, because by overcoming the faults the stronger force is developed.
 - You’ll be able to gain insight and reach a conclusion only by applying the powers of mind, intellect, soul, heart, spirit, and imagination. This is what ‘looking at something spiritually’ really means.
 - For human beings, love is the most important fruit of experience in the sense world.
 - Thoughts that deny reincarnation are transformed in the next life into an inner unreality, an inner emptiness of life; this inner unreality and emptiness are experienced as torment, as disharmony.
 - Heights of the spirit can only be climbed by passing through the portals of humility.
 - Truth is a free creation of the human spirit, that never would exist at all if we did not generate it ourselves.
 - Only when I follow my love for my objective is it I myself who act.
 - You have no idea how unimportant is all that the teacher says or does not say on the surface, and how important what he himself is as teacher.
 - When the past has taught us that we have more within us than we have ever used, our prayer is a cry to the divine to come to us and fill us with its power.
 - The thing itself is one; the images are many. What leads to a perceptive understanding of the thing is not the focus on one image, but the viewing of many images together.
 - Ultimately all knowing, from the highest to the lowest, is the result of experience; it arises on the way of experiences.
 - The sensory world is the school, without which the human being would never come to the spirit.
 - Materialism has cast man into such depths that a mighty concentration of forces is necessary to raise him again. He is subject to illnesses of the nervous system which are veritable epidemics of the life of the soul.
 - The task of understanding is not to replicate in conceptual form something that already exists, but rather to create a wholly new realm, that together with the world given to our senses constitutes the fullness of reality.
 - If men had known how to permeate the soul with mathematics in the right way in the arithmetic lessons during these past years, we should not now have Bolshevism in Eastern Europe.
 - When sculpting the human figure in stone it is necessary to draw the whole form out of the content of the head.
 - If man wants to obtain knowledge of the greatness and happiness of these worlds, then is nothing else possible than that he also will be introduced to the dangerous, with the fearfulness that they contain. One is not possible without the other.
 - If we can simply distinguish between the different successive stages of evolution, it is possible to see primeval events within the earthly events of the present.
 - When the spirit most closely approaches the physical earth, then we have the perception of fragrance.
 - The higher worlds are around us. These worlds are not only heavenly worlds, not only worlds of happiness, though paradise and happiness are in them, but they are also worlds that could be terrible for the people, by dangerous facts and creatures.
 - It is owing to our limitations that a thing appears to us as single and separate when in truth it is not a separate thing at all.
 - In the future every human shall see a hidden divinity in every fellow human.
 - We differ from one another in our individual gifts which, however, belong to our inner nature.
 - All real philosophers have been artists in the realm of concepts.
 - All the great Founders of religions have been possessed of clairvoyant sight.
 - We have to live over into the other; we have to dissolve with our soul into the other.

105 quotes